So it's Friday, April 21, 1820.
今天是1820年4月21日 星期五

A physics professor in Denmark named Hans Christian Oersted
一位叫奥斯特的丹麦物理学教授

is in the middle of a lecture,
and he's using a compass and an electric wire for a demonstration.
正在使用指南针和电线进行演示实验

He turns on the current that runs through the wire,
and he notices that the needle in the compass starts to move.
他让电流通过导线 然后注意到罗盘上的指针开始移动

And when he turns the current off, the needle moves back to where it was.
当他关掉电流时 针头回到原来的位置

Then, he runs the current through the wire in the opposite direction,
and sees the needle move the other way.
然后他让电流反向通过导线 指针的转动方向也反了

What Oersted demonstrated that day was a fundamental discovery:
the connection between electricity and magnetism.
奥斯特实验所展示的是一个基础性的发现 电力和磁力之间的联系

And it changed the field of physics forever.
它永远改变了物理学的研究领域

The relationship between electricity and magnetism
not only explains what Oersted and his students witnessed in 1820.
电与磁之间的相互作用 不仅解释了奥斯特和他的学生当年目睹的现象

It also makes possible much of the technology that's used today
from hydroelectric dams to your smartphone.
这也使得今天使用的许多技术 从水电大坝到智能手机 成为可能

It even explains why Earth's magnetic field is essentially keeping you
from being cooked alive right now.
它甚至还能解释为什么地球的磁场让你没被太阳煮熟

And all you really need to understand the basics of
magnetism and electricity is this. [waves hand]
而你只需要右手就能了解磁力和电力之间的相互作用

You're probably familiar with the basics of magnets already:
你可能对磁铁有基本的了解

They have a north pole and south pole.
它们有一个北极和一个南极

Two of the same pole will repel each other, while opposites attract.
同名磁极相互排斥 异名磁极相互吸引

Only certain materials, especially those that contain iron, can be magnets.
但只有某些特殊的 特别是含有铁的材料可以制成磁铁

It depends on their molecular properties.
这与他们的分子性质有关

And other metals, including cobalt, nickel, and iron,
are attracted to magnets, even though they aren't magnets themselves.
而其他本身没有磁性的金属 如钴、镍和纯铁会被吸引到磁铁上

Like the metal in your refrigerator door.
就像冰箱门上的门吸一样

And there's a magnetic field around Earth,
which is why you can use a compass to figure out which way is north.
地球周围也有一个磁场 因此你可以使用指南针来确定哪条路是往北走的

The magnet in the compass aligns itself with Earth's magnetic field.
指南针中的磁铁与地球的磁场一致

Just as we use electric field lines to represent the electric field created by charges,
we can draw magnetic field lines to represent the magnetic field created by magnets.
类似电场 我们也可以画出磁场线来表示由磁体产生的磁场

And as with electric fields, the more crowded the lines are,
the stronger the magnetic field.
同样 线条越密集的地方磁场也越强

The lines point from the north pole to the south pole
like how electric field lines point from the positive to the negative charge.
像电场线从正极指向负极电荷一样 磁力线从北极指向南极

But there's a key difference:
you can have an electric field spreading outward from a single electric charge.
但有一个重要的区别 你可以拥有一个由单个电荷向外扩散形成的电场

But that can't happen with magnets
because you can't isolate one magnetic pole.
但对于磁铁来说这是不可能发生的 因为你不能孤立某一个磁极

If you chop a bar magnet in half,
如果你把磁铁切两半

you don't end up with one north magnet and one south magnet
你得到的也不是一个南极磁铁和一个北极磁铁

you end up with two magnets, each with its own north pole and south pole.
而是各自具有南北极的两个小磁铁

This means that the magnetic field lines
surrounding\Na magnet always form closed loops.
这意味着围绕磁体的磁场线总是闭合的

We measure magnetic fields using a unit called the Tesla,
which is one Newton per Ampere-meter.
磁感应强度的单位是特斯拉(T)

And 1 tesla is a very strong magnetic field
特斯拉是一个非常大的单位

the fields from some of the strongest superconducting
magnets in the world are only 10 teslas.
世界上最强大的超导磁体产生的磁场也只有10T

Now, when Oersted was doing his demonstration on that fateful day in 1820,
he was using a regular compass magnet.
奥斯特当年做实验用的 是一个普通的指南针中的磁铁

But when he brought the magnet close to a wire carrying a current,
但当他把磁铁靠近通电导线时

the magnetic field from that current exerted a force on the needle,
moving it to point in a different direction.
导线周围产生的磁场 使得指针的方向发生了偏转

Oersted had discovered one of the fundamental principles of electromagnetism:
奥斯特发现了电磁学的基本原理之一

An electric current produces a magnetic field.
电流能产生磁场

After a few more months of experimenting,
经过了几个月的实验后

Oersted figured out that when a current runs through a wire,
the magnetic field that it produces surrounds the wire.
奥斯特发现 电流流过导线 可以使其产生围绕导线的磁场

Expressed with field lines, the magnetic field would appear as circles,
 with the wire at their center.
如果用场线表示 磁场线是导线为中心的同心圆

If the current was coming straight towards you,
the field lines would be pointing counterclockwise.
如果电流朝向你 那么场线的方向是逆时针

And we use the vector B to represent the magnetic field.
我们使用向量B来表示磁场

The magnitude of the vector is the strength of the magnetic field,
and the direction of the vector is the field's direction.
B的大小是磁感应强度 方向是磁感线的方向

Now, there's an easy way to remember
how the direction of the electric current,
and the direction of the magnetic field it produces, relate to each other.
关于磁场方向与电场方向的关系 有一个简单的记忆方法

It's called the first right-hand rule
because here are actually three right-hand rules.
叫做第一右手规则 因为三条右手规则实际上有三条

Just take your right hand,
and point your thumb in the direction of the electric current.
伸出右手 拇指方向指向电流的去向

Now curl your fingers.
握紧拳头

The direction your fingers are curling?
注意到手指的卷曲方向了吗

That's the way the magnetic field lines are pointing.
这就是磁场线的走向

And likewise, if you know the direction of the magnetic field lines,
you can use the rule to figure out the direction of the current in the wire.
反义 如果知道了磁感线的方向 也可以找到电流的方向

It really comes in, uh, handy.
这个方法真的是很方便

Now, if a current running through a wire exerts a force on a magnet,
you might expect the opposite to be true as well:
如果电流能对磁体施加力 你可能会想磁铁会反作用于电流吗

That a magnet exerts a force on a current running through a wire.
磁铁会对通过电线的电流有力的作用

And it does!
这是真的哦

Which is good, because that's what's protecting us
from harmful radiation from the Sun right now.
这是件好事 也是磁场保护我们免受太阳有害辐射的原因

The direction of the force from a magnetic field
on a current running through a wire will be perpendicular
to both the magnetic field and the current.
磁场对流过电线的电流的作用力的方向 垂直于磁场和电流方向

Which brings us to the second right-hand rule!
下面是第二右手规则

This one helps you keep track of three directions:
the direction of the magnetic field, the current, and the force.
这涉及到三个方向：磁场方向 电流方向和力的方向

Here's how to use the second right-hand rule:
下面来解释第二右手规则的用法

Point your arm in the direction of the current.
顺着电流方向伸出右手

Then bend your fingers so they're perpendicular to your palm.
四个手指弯曲 垂直于手掌

This represents the direction of the magnetic field.
这表示磁场的方向

Your thumb, which is perpendicular to your fingers,
 is the direction of the force on the wire.
垂直于四指的拇指方向 就是磁场对电流的力的方向

But what about the strength of that force?
那么力的大小呢

You can use your hands to figure this out, too!
这个也可以用手解决

But you'll have to use them to do math.
不过手是用来计算的

Sorry.
没办法

The magnitude of the force from a magnetic field on a wire
is equal to I l B sin theta.
磁场力的大小F = BILsinθ

This equation tells us that there are four factors
that affect the magnitude of the force.
这个方程告诉我们 力的大小与4个量有关

First, there's the current in the wire – that's I
and the stronger it is, the stronger the force is.
首先是导线中的电流大小I 电流越大 力就越强

Second, there's the length of the wire running through the magnetic field – that's l
其次是导线穿过磁场的长度L

– and the longer the wire is, the stronger the force is.
导线越长 力就越强

Third, there's the magnetic field, B,
and the stronger B is, the stronger the force.
第三是磁感应强度B B越大力就越强

Finally, the closer to perpendicular the current
is with respect to the magnetic field's direction, the stronger the force is.
最后 电流方向相对于磁场方向越接近垂直 力就越强

That's where the sine theta comes in
its maximum value is 1, when theta is 90 degrees.
当θ为90°时 sinθ取得最大值1

So the current is perpendicular to the magnetic field lines.
此时电流方向垂直于磁场线方向

That's when the force will be strongest.
这时磁场力是最大的

Similarly, the minimum value of sine theta is 0,
when theta is 0 – so that means the current is parallel to the magnetic field lines.
当θ=0时，sinθ取得最小值0 这意味着电流与磁场线平行

And in that case, there won't be any force on the wire at all.
在此情况下 磁场对导线没有力的作用

Now, all of this math can help us understand
how we're being protected right now from solar radiation!
上面的分析可以帮助我们理解 我们为何没有被太阳辐射影响

The Sun is constantly shooting radiation towards Earth,
in the form of charged particles.
太阳始终以带电粒子的形式向地球发送辐射

But, luckily for us, Earth has a magnetic field.
但幸运的是 我们的地球周围有一个磁场

Currents are made up of moving electric charges,
电流由流动的电荷组成

so it makes sense that a magnetic field would also exert a force
on single electric charges that pass through it.
因此地磁场会对通过它的每个电荷也施加作用力

And this is exactly what the Earth's magnetic field does
to the charged particles coming from the Sun:
这正是地磁场对待来自太阳的带电粒子的态度

it deflects them, sending them spiraling away
and protecting us from the worst of the radiation.
它使带电粒子发生偏转 减小了θ 从而让我们免受最强的辐射

Let's suppose you wanted to find the magnitude of the force
of the magnetic field on a single charged particle from the Sun.
假设你想求一个来自太阳的带电粒子受到的磁场力的大小

All you'd have to do is change the equation
we used for the force on the current,
to account for the fact that we're talking about a single charge.
只需要将刚才方程应用于单个带电粒子的情况

The equation for the force of a magnetic field on a current says that:
磁场力的方程式表示

the strength of the force is equal to the current, times the length of the wire,
times the strength of the magnetic field,
times the sine of the angle between the current and the magnetic field.
力的大小=电流×导线长度×磁感应强度×夹角的正弦值

Now, two of those variables don't apply to a single charge:
the current, I, and the length, l.
这些变量中有两个不适用于单个电荷的情况 电流I和导线长度L

But current is just equal to the number of charged particles
passing a given point over a certain amount of time – which we'll call N
times their charge, q, divided by that time, t.
但电流恰好是一定时间内通过的带电粒子的数量×电荷量/时间

For a single charge, N is just 1.
对于单个电荷来说N为1

And length is just equal to velocity, v, multiplied by time.
而长度等于速度乘以时间

So we can apply these two facts to our equation for force,
which tells us that the force on an electric charge
moving through a magnetic field, is equal to:
将这两个等式带入原方程中 得到单个带电粒子收到的磁场力大小

q divided by time, multiplied by velocity times time,
times the strength of the magnetic field, times the sine of theta.
等于(电荷量/时间)×(速度·时间)×磁感应强度×夹角的正弦值

Those two t's cancel each other out,
so the equation simplifies to F = qvBsintheta.
两个t相互抵消 方程化简为F=qvBsinθ

That means that, like the force on a current running through a wire,
the force on a single electric charge depends on four factors.
同理 单个电荷受到的力同样取决于4个因素

One is the same as with a current:
The stronger the magnetic field, the stronger the force.
第一个也是磁感应强度B 它越大力就越强

The other three factors are slightly different from the case with a current:
其他三个因素与之前的情况略有不同

First, the force is stronger,
the closer to perpendicular the charge's velocity is to the magnetic field lines.
首先 电荷的速度方向越接近磁感线的垂直方向 力就越强

Which means that if the charge's velocity is parallel to the magnetic field lines,
there won't be any force on whatsoever.
这意味着 如果电荷的速度与磁感线平行 则不会受到力

Second, the more charge the particle has, the stronger the force.
其次 粒子带的电荷越多 受到的力就越强

And third, the faster the particle is moving, the stronger the force.
第三 粒子运动速度越快 力就越强

Finding the direction of this force is where the third right-hand rule comes in:
找到这个力的方向需要用到第三个右手规则

So get your right hand out again!
所以再把右手伸出来吧

Straighten your fingers with your thumb stretched outward.
五指伸直 拇指与其余四指垂直

Then point your arm in the direction of the particle's velocity.
手臂方向指向粒子运动方向

Then bend your fingers to make them point
in the direction of the magnetic field lines.
向磁感线方向弯曲四指

This is where things get a little tricky:
困难的地方来了

If the charged particle is positive,
your thumb is pointing in the direction of the force.
如果粒子带正电 那么拇指方向正好是力的方向

But if it's negative, the force is pointing in the direction opposite your thumb.
但如果是负电荷 那么力的方向与你的拇指方向相反

So, electric currents create magnetic fields,
and magnetic fields exert forces on electric currents and charges.
所以，电能生磁 磁也能对电有力的作用

Oersted's experiment was simple,
奥斯特的实验虽然简单

but his discovery linked two major fields of physics,
and inspired other scientists to do a lot more experimenting.
但将物理学的两个重要领域联系在一起 启发了后世科学家进行更多试验

Today, you learned about magnetism,
and the magnetic field created by a current running through a wire.
这节课我们学了磁 以及电流流过产生的磁场

We also talked about the force
from a magnetic field on a current running through a wire,
我们还讲了磁场对通电导线的作用力

and on a single charge moving through a magnetic field.
并分析了单个电荷通过磁场的情况

And we went through the three right-hand rules.
同时介绍了三条右手判别规则

