Physicists learned a lot about electricity and magnetism in the 19th century. 
19世纪的物理学家已经对电和磁有了一定的了解

We've already talked about one of the biggest discoveries
that electric currents can create magnetic fields. 
我们之前说过 最大的发现之一是电流可以产生磁场

And once scientists had figured that out,
they wondered if the opposite was also true. 
科学家们不满足于此 想知道逆命题是否成立

Could magnetic fields create – or induce – an electric current? 
磁场能不能产生或诱发电流呢

Many physicists designed experiments
to detect electric currents induced by magnetic fields,
物理学家们设计了实验来验证磁场可以产生电流

but they kept coming up empty. 
但均一无所获

That is, until two physicists, Joseph Henry and Michael Faraday,
both on their own, figured out what was happening: 
直到亨利和法拉第两位物理学家各自独立地发现

It turns out that magnetic fields do induce electric currents. 
磁场确实能感应出电流

But only under certain circumstances
when the magnetic field is changing with time.
但只有在当磁场随时间变化时才满足条件

And this discovery is what eventually led to the invention of hard drives. 
这一发现最终导致了硬盘的发明

When Faraday discovered that magnetic fields induce electric currents,
he got kind of lucky.
法拉第发现磁场可以感应电流完全是出于走运

He set up a current flowing through a coil of wire
so that it would generate a magnetic field,
他把线圈通上电 使其产生磁场

and then he watched to see if that magnetic field
induced a current in a second coil of wire.
研究另一个线圈中是否感应出了电流

And it didn't, which was probably pretty disappointing at first.
可是没有发现感应电流 这有点出师不利

But then, Faraday noticed something weird: 
但接下来法拉第注意到有一些奇怪的事情出现了

When he turned the current on and off in the first coil,
当第一个线圈开断电时

there was a brief spike of current in the second coil
第二个线圈中出现了短暂的电流脉冲

but only while the current was changing from off to on and back again. 
但这只发生于开和关的一瞬间

He realized that he'd been looking for the wrong thing: 
a constant magnetic field didn't cause an electric current in a loop of wire. 
他意识到自己一直都错了 恒定的磁场不会在环路中产生电流

Only a changing magnetic field did! 
变化的磁场才行

These days, we call this idea Faraday's Law of Induction: 
如今 我们把它称为法拉第电磁感应定律

It says that a changing magnetic field will induce an emf in a loop of wire. 
它说的是变化的磁场会在电线环中产生感应电动势

And emf, you'll recall, stands for electromotive force,
which is what causes electrons to move and form a current.
还记得emf代表电动势吧 它是电子移动形成电流的原因

So now Faraday knew that when a magnetic field changed over time,
it induced an emf in a loop of wire.
现在法拉第知道当磁场随时间变化时 它会在线圈中感应出电动势

But a couple of other things induced emf, too,
even if the strength of the magnetic field stayed the same. 
即使磁场强度保持不变 仍可能诱发出感应电动势

Changing the area of the loop of wire induced a current, too,
and so did changing the angle between the loop and the magnetic field.
例如改变线圈的面积 或线圈与磁场之间的角度

That's because of a property that most directly induces emf
the property known as magnetic flux, represented by Φ_B.
这种导致电动势的根本特性 被称为磁通量 用Φ_B表示

Magnetic flux is essentially a measure of the magnetic field
running through a loop of wire.
磁通量是穿过线圈磁场的一种根本度量

And when that field changes? That's what induces an emf. 
当磁场改变了 感应电动势就产生了

And there are three factors that affect the magnetic field,
and therefore the magnetic flux through the loop: 
有三个因素影响磁场 因此影响了磁通量

First, there's the strength of the magnetic field, which we label as B.
首先是磁感应强度 我们记为B

Next, there the area of the loop, A. 
其次是线圈在场内的面积 记为A

If the loop is bigger, there'll be a larger magnetic field
running through it, and vice versa. 
如果线圈较大 则穿过的磁场越多 反之亦然

And finally, there's the angle, theta, between the magnetic field
and a line perpendicular to the face of the loop.
最后一点是磁场和垂直于线圈之间的夹角θ

Combining all these factors,
结合所有因素

we find that the magnetic flux is equal to the strength of the magnetic field
times the area of the loop, times the cosine of the angle
between the magnetic field and that perpendicular line.
磁通量等于上述三个因素的乘积

And if the magnetic field and the loop are perpendicular,
then the magnetic flux will just be equal to the strength of the magnetic field
times the area of the loop. 
如果磁场与线圈是垂直的 那么磁通量就等于磁场强度乘以线圈面积

Magnetic flux is measured in units of Tm^2, also known as webers. 
磁通量的单位是T·m^2 或称为韦伯

But when it comes to inducing emf,
what really matters is how the flux is changing over time. 
但真正决定感应电动势的是磁通量如何随时间变化的

If the magnetic flux through a loop of wire decreases over time,
the emf increases accordingly. 
如果通过线圈的磁通量随着时间减少 那么电动势会相应增加

And if the flux increases over time, the emf decreases. 
如果通量随时间增加 那么电动势会下降

In maths terms, we'd say that the emf is equal to
the negative of the change in flux, over the change in time.
用数学语言描述 电动势等于磁通量关于变化量的负值

This equation works well for the change in flux through one loop of wire. 
这个方程适用于通过一个回路的磁通变化

But often, you'll be inducing emf in a coil of wire
like what Faraday was doing in his experiment
你可以找个线圈 重现法拉第的实验

so it helps to know how a change in the magnetic flux
will induce emf in a coil.
这能帮你理解变化的磁通是如何感应出电动势的

And the key here is that a change in the magnetic flux through a coil
induces the same emf in each loop of the coil.
线圈中变化的磁通在每个回路中感应出的电动势相等

So if you want to know the total emf in the coil,
如果你想计算线圈中的电动势大小

you calculate the emf for one loop of wire,
then multiply it by the number of loops in the coil, or N. 
你可以先计算一个回路的电动势 再乘以回路个数N

Which means that the induced emf in a coil of wire
也就是说 线圈中的电动势大小

is equal to the number of coils,
times the change in magnetic flux over the change in time,
all multiplied by a negative sign.
等于线圈数量乘以磁通随时间变化量的相反数

So, having two loops in the coil would mean
double the emf that would be induced in one loop,
两层线圈的电动势是单层线圈的两倍

while 10 loops would mean 10 times the emf.
10层就是10倍

So! Faraday's law of induction lets us calculate how much emf
and therefore, how much current
will be induced in a loop of wire by a change in magnetic flux. 
法拉第感应定律给出了线圈中感应电动势(电流)的计算方法

But in what direction will the induced current flow? 
但是感应电流的方向是什么

To figure that out, we use a rule called Lenz's Law.
为了解决这个问题 我们引入楞次定律

You know how currents generate magnetic fields? 
你知道电流如何产生磁场吗

Well, Lenz's law says that the magnetic field generated by the induced current 
will be in the direction opposite the change magnetic flux.
楞次定律说 感应电流方向与产生其的磁通量变化方向相反

So if you know the direction of the change in magnetic flux,
you can figure out the direction of the magnetic field generated by the current.
如果你知道磁通量变化的方向 你可以得到感应电流方向

And from there, you can use our old friend the right-hand rule
to figure out the direction of the current.
这里 我们借助老朋友右手定则找出电流的方向

To get a better feel for how to apply Lenz's law,
为了更好地理解楞次定律

let's look at two scenarios involving a bar magnet
below a loop of wire, with the north pole of the magnet facing the loop.
我们把磁铁的北极朝上 线圈置于其上 分析两种情况

In the first scenario, 
you move the north pole of the bar magnet closer to the loop,
which increases the magnetic field flowing through the loop.
首先把磁棒的北极靠近线圈 增加流过线圈的磁场

This therefore creates a change in magnetic flux
and induces a current in the loop. 
此时磁通量发生变化 在回路中感应出电流

And the current generates a magnetic field
that opposes this change in magnetic flux.
电流产生一个阻止这种磁通量变化的磁场

Now, the north pole of the magnet
points in the same direction as the magnetic field. 
现在 磁铁的北极与磁场方向相同

So by moving the magnet closer to the loop,
在磁铁靠近环路时

you essentially made the magnetic field from the bar magnet
point more strongly upward.
使得来自磁棒的磁场向上的分量增大

And according to Lenz's law,
the magnetic field created by the induced current
will oppose this – so it'll point downward.
根据楞次定律 由感应电流产生的磁场将与此相反 指向下方

In the second scenario, the north pole of the magnet is again facing the wire. 
换一种情况 磁铁的北极再次面对导线

But this time, you move the magnet away from the loop. 
但这次 你将磁铁从线圈中移开

In this case, you're basically making the magnetic field from the magnet
point less strongly upward – and more strongly downward.
在这种情况下 磁感应强度向上的分量变小 向下的分量变大

So the magnetic field created by the induced current
will point upward to counteract this change.
所以由感应电流产生的磁场为了减弱这种变化 将指向上

And once you know the direction of the magnetic field
generated by the induced current,
you can figure out the direction of the current from there.
一旦你知道感应电流产生的磁场方向 你就可以得到电流的方向

This is where the right-hand rule comes in.
这里需要右手定则

Make a "stop" sign with your right hand,
then point your thumb in the direction of the magnetic field
being generated by the induced current. 
用右手做一个停止的手势 将拇指指向由感应电流产生的磁场方向

The direction that your fingers are pointing? 
其余手指指向的方向

That's the direction of the current. 
这是电流的方向

Let's try it: 
让我们试试吧

In our first scenario,
在第一种情况下

where we moved the north pole of the magnet closer to the loop of wire,
the generated magnetic field was pointing upward.
I我们将磁铁的北极靠近线圈 将产生的磁场指向上方

So the current will be moving clockwise along the loop. 
所以电流方向为顺时针

In the second scenario,
在第二种情况下

where we moved the north pole of the magnet away from the loop,
the generated magnetic field was pointing downward.
我们让磁铁的北极远离线圈 产生的磁场指向下方

So the current will be moving counterclockwise along the loop. 
所以电流将沿着线圈逆时针运动

Now, another way to use magnetic flux
to induce a current in a loop
is by changing how much of the loop is within the magnetic field.
另一种方式借助磁通量在线圈中感应电流的方法是改变环路

Say you have a horizontal magnetic field, and a loop of wire. 
假设你有一个水平放置的磁场和一个线圈

You arrange the loop so it's perpendicular to the magnetic field,
你让线圈横向切割磁场

then drag it out of the magnetic field,
which decreases the amount of magnetic field within the loop. 
然后将其慢慢移出磁场 这使得线圈内的磁场量减小

The magnetic flux through the loop changes, which induces an emf. 
通过线圈的磁通量发生变化 从而产生了感应电动势

The strength of the emf is equal to negative of the change in the magnetic flux, 
over the change in time. 
电动势的大小等于磁通量关于时间变化量的负值

The flux, you'll recall, is equal to the magnetic field
times the area, times the cosine of the angle
between the magnetic field and a line perpendicular to the loop. 
磁通量等于磁感应强度 乘以面积 乘以夹角的余弦

Since the magnetic field is perpendicular to the loop,
the cosine of the angle is 1, so that term drops out of the equation.
由于磁场垂直于线圈 因此夹角的余弦值为1 在方程中可不写

Which means that in this case, the change in flux is equal to the magnetic field
times the change in the area of the loop within the magnetic field.
在这种情况下 磁通量的变化等于磁感应强度 乘以环路面积的变化

And the area of the loop is equal to its length, which we'll call L,
times the width of the loop that's in the magnetic field, which we'll call x.
线圈的有效面积等于它的长度L乘上宽度x

As you move the loop out of the magnetic field,
the amount of its width within the field, x, changes.
当线圈慢慢移出磁场时 有效宽度x会发生变化

So! The change in magnetic flux is equal to the strength of the magnetic field,
times the length of the loop, times the change in its width within the magnetic field.
磁通量的变化等于磁感应强度 乘以长度 乘以宽度的变化

So the strength of the induced emf will be equal
to all of that, divided by the change in time. 
所以感应电动势的强度等于上式关于时间的变化率

Thankfully, there's a way to simplify all of this:
谢天谢地 我们有一种化简的方法

The change in x over the change in time should look familiar
it's just equal to the velocity of the loop as you move it out of the magnetic field! 
线圈移出磁场的宽度关于时间的变化 就等于移动的速度

So when you move a loop of wire in or out of a magnetic field,
当线圈移入或移出磁场时

the strength of the induced emf is equal to the strength of the magnetic field,
times the length of the loop, times the velocity of the loop.
感应电动势的强度等于磁感应强度 乘以环的长度 乘以环的速度

Using a magnetic field to induce a current
is useful for all kinds of reasons
we'll talk about some of the main ones next time.
借助磁场产生电流这一点非常有用 下次课我们会具体分析

It's also how hard drives work
at least, the ones that use a rotating disk.
这也是硬盘驱动器 至少是旋转磁盘的工作原理

Your computer stores information on your hard drive
by magnetizing small sections of the disk.
通过磁化磁盘 计算机将信息存储在硬盘上

To read that information,
为了读取这些信息

your computer rotates sections of the disk past the head,
which is a small electromagnet that has a coil of wire.
计算机用带线圈的小电磁铁作为磁头读取旋转的磁盘

The changing magnetic field induces a current in the coil in the head,
变化的磁场在磁头的线圈中感应出电流

and computers processes that signal as the zeroes and ones
we use to store digital information! 
计算机用0和1这样的二进制信号用来存储数字信息

Digital information like this episode of Crash Course! 
这集速成课就是这样的数字信息诶

Today, you learned about magnetic flux,
and how a change in magnetic flux can induce an emf in a loop or coil of wire.
这次课我们学了磁通量 及其变化是如何在线圈中产生感应电动势的

We also talked about how to calculate that emf
both when the magnetic field is changing
and when the area of the loop in the magnetic field is changing.
我们还讨论了当磁场变化或线圈面积变化时 电动势大小的计算方法

Finally, we described how induction works in hard drives. 
最后 我们介绍了感应现象在硬盘上的应用

