0,,At this point, we've covered a lot of the basics when it comes to how things move.
0,,这节课 我们来讲运动物体的一些基本概念
0,,But we've mostly been focusing on only one type of motion: translational motion,
0,,但是我们只讲了一种运动形式：平移运动
0,,which is when something moves through space, but doesn't rotate.
0,,也就是 物体在不转动的情况下 移动
0,,But rotational motion is also a thing -- and an important one.
0,,但是转动运动也是一种运动形式 而且还挺重要的
0,,For example, the spin of a football -- both the soccer and the non-soccer kind --
0,,例如 足球的旋转 无论是否是橄榄球形
0,,will affect the way it flies through the air.
0,,会影响它飞行的路线
0,,But the physics of rotational motion isn't all that different from the physics of translational motion.
0,,但是转动并非与平移截然不同
0,,It still involves things like position, velocity, and acceleration.
0,,仍然离不开 位置 速度 加速度 等属性
0,,And many of the equations you use to describe rotational motion will look really familiar to you.
0,,而且不少用来描述转动运动的公式你会觉得似曾相识
0,,But there are some important differences.
0,,但也有不少重要的区别
0,,Like, instead of positions, there are angles.
0,,比如 用角度来描述位置
0,,And instead of points on a line, you follow points along an arc.
0,,用曲线代替直线
0,,And, there are times when rotational motion can explain things that sound impossible, but actually are true.
0,,而且 转动运动可以解释一些匪夷所思的现象 但情况却是如此
0,,Like when a point on a spinning wheel, is actually standing still.
0,,例如 转动着的车轮上的某个点 其实是静止的
0,,So, the rules here are the same.
0,,所以这里所用的分析法也是一样的
0,,But rotational motion has what you might call its own "circular logic."
0,,你可能想把转动运动称作“圆周逻辑”
0,,When it comes to translational motion, we tend to talk about position in terms of x and y.
0,,平移运动时 我们研究的是x方向和y方向
0,,Where is this object, horizontally? And where is it vertically?
0,,水平方向的位置是什么 竖直方向的位置是什么
0,,Those axes make sense, because we're usually tracking the object's motion along those directions.
0,,坐标系是很有用的 因为我们通常沿着物体的运动方向追踪物体
0,,But for rotational motion, we really want to know the object's angle -- what we call theta.
0,,但对于转动运动 我们只关心物体的角度 即θ
0,,Say we have a big disk with a dot painted on it.
0,,假装我们有个大盘子 正中间有个点
0,,If we call the right side of the disk our starting point, then when the dot is at the right, its angle would be zero.
0,,如果把最右侧的点作为起点 那么刚开始的角度为零
0,,And when the dot is at the left, its angle would be 180 degrees -- half of a full circle.
0,,当点运动到最左侧时 夹角成了180° 即半个圆周
0,,But even though we've been measuring angles using degrees until now,
0,,即使我们现在用角度制来度量一个角
0,,there's another unit that physicists use a lot,
0,,还有一种物理学家常用的单位制
0,,and it'll be the main one we'll use in this episode and the next.
0,,从这集开始我们将采用这种
0,,That unit is called the radian, and its name comes from the fact that it's based on the radius of a circle.
0,,即弧度制 顾名思义用弧长与半径的关系来描述一个角
0,,If you think back to basic geometry, you'll recall that the circumference of a circle is just 2, times pi, times the circle's radius.
0,,根据简单的几何知识 我们有圆周长=2×π×半径
0,,Radians describe angles by essentially telling you how much of that circumference is covered by a given angle.
0,,弧度 描述了给定角所对应的弧长
0,,So, 360 degrees -- which is a full circle's worth of angles -- would be 2 pi radians.
0,,因此 360° 即整个圆周 就是2π弧度
0,,180 degrees -- or half a circle's worth of angles -- would be pi radians.
0,,180° 即半个圆周 就是π
0,,And to convert any number of degrees to radians, you just multiply the degrees times pi and divide by 180.
0,,只需将角度数乘上π再除以180 即可得到弧度数
0,,{\pos(1126,385)}π×角度数
0,,{\pos(936,416)}弧度数=
0,,{\pos(1123,412)}———————
0,,{\pos(1113,449)}180
0,,So now we know how to describe the angle of something that's rotating.
0,,现在我们会描述物体转动时的角度了
0,,But what about the velocity of its rotation?
0,,那么转动的速度怎么表示呢
0,,Well, we've already learned that plain old translational, or linear, velocity is a measure of an object's change in position.
0,,我们已经知道普通的平移运动 或线性运动 的速度是物体位置变化的量度
0,,And in the same way, rotational velocity is a measure of an object's change in angle.
0,,同理 转动运动的速度是物体角度变化的量度
0,,This is known as its angular velocity, and is represented by the lowercase Greek letter, Omega.
0,,称为 角速度 用小写希腊字母ω表示
0,,which I want to point out looks a bit like a W, but itsn't a W.
0,,注意这是欧米伽不是达不溜
0,,And, as you might have guessed by now, angular velocity is the derivative
0,,or the rate of change of angular displacement with respect to time.
0,,现在可以大胆猜测 角速度就是角度关于时间的一阶导数
0,,But we can also describe an object's rotation in terms of its tangential velocity.
0,,但是我们也可以用 切向速度 来描述物体的转动
0,,This is the same type of velocity we used when we talked about the physics of uniform circular motion.
0,,也就是 第7集匀速圆周运动 中的那个速度
0,,Remember? With the key spinning around on a string?
0,,想起来了吗 拴着绳子的钥匙
0,,And that vomit-causing carnival ride?
0,,或者是令人反胃的游乐设施
0,,In those cases, we described how, when an object moves along a circular path,
0,,在这种情况下 当一个物体沿圆周运动时
0,,its velocity is perpendicular to the radius of the circle, in the direction of the motion.
0,,它的速度方向是垂直于半径的
0,,And, when you think about it, any rigid object rotating around a fixed axis is basically a set of points, all moving along circular paths.
0,,而且 任何刚体沿定点转动 都可以看成是一系列点做圆周运动
0,,So, at any given moment, each of those points will have a tangential velocity that depends
0,,on the path it moves through -- specifically, the radius of that path.
0,, 所以不管什么情况 每个点都有一个取决于路径 特别是路径的半径 的切向速度
0,,In fact, its tangential velocity will be equal to its angular velocity, times the radius.
0,,切向速度=角速度×半径
0,,{\pos(321,235)}切向速度
0,,{\pos(752,534)}角速度
0,,{\pos(956,236)}半径
0,,It's easy to see why this makes sense, if you picture the spokes of a rotating wheel.
0,,如果你能画出轮辐 那么这个公式就很好理解了
0,,All of the points along each spoke have to have the same angular velocity,
0,,同一个辐条上的点 拥有相同的角速度
0,,because they all cover the same angular distance in the same amount of time.
0,,因为它们在相同时间内 转动过的角度相同
0,,But to get from, say, the right-hand side of the circle to the bottom,
0,,the points on the outside of the wheel will pass through a much bigger arc
0,,但是右边的远点比近点 在相同的时间内 滑过的弧长是不同的
0,,covering more distance, basically than the points on the inside.
0,,明显 是远点的弧长更长些
0,,So, the farther that a point on the spoke is from the center of the wheel,
0,,the greater its tangential velocity has to be.
0,,所以 离圆心越远的点 切向速度更大
0,,Like circular motion, rotational motion can also be periodic -- periodic means when the rotation repeats
0,,与圆周运动类似 转动运动也可能是周期性的 也就是以某段时间重复运动
0,,after a set amount of time, which is represented by a  capital T, also called The Period.
0,,这段时间用T表示 称作周期
0,,And the equations that describe periodic motion are pretty much the same as the ones we used for a single point moving along a circular path:
0,,描述周期运动的方程和之前的点绕圆周运动的方程类似
0,,So the frequency, or number of rotations that happen every second, is equal to one, divided by the period.
0,,频率 即每秒转动的圈数 等于周期的倒数
0,,But frequency and angular velocity are really just two different ways of describing the same thing.They just use different units.
0,,但频率和角速度只是描述同一事物的单位不同的两种表达形式而已
0,,Frequency is measured in rotations -- or revolutions -- per second,
0,,频率 表示每秒转动的圈数
0,,and angular velocity is measured in radians per second.
0,,角速度表示每秒旋转的度数
0,,And one revolution is equal to the circumference of the circle: 2 pi radians.
0,,旋转1圈相当于2π
0,,So, in order to convert from frequency to angular velocity,
0,,所以把频率化成角速度
0,,All you need to do is multiplythe frequency by 2 pi.
0,,只需要把频率乘上2π
0,,Now, there's a special case when it comes to the velocity of rotating objects,
0,,and that's what's known as rolling without slipping.
0,,关于转动物体的速度有个特例 无滑动滚动
0,,This kind of motion shows up in real life all the time.
0,,这种运动在生活中随处可见
0,,It's what happens to your car's tires when you drive down the street,
0,,就是你开车时 轿车轮胎发生的运动
0,,as long as you aren't skidding -- which, let's hope you aren't.
0,,你也不希望轮胎打滑 对吧
0,,And it's what a train's wheels do as they move along the track.
0,,火车也是这么行驶的
0,,But it turns out that the translational velocity at the bottom of the wheel is super weird.
0,,但运动时 轮胎最低点的速度极其诡异
0,,Mainly, because at any given moment, the point at the bottom of the wheel
0,,因为 在任何时候 轮胎最低点并没有水平速度
0,,doesn't have a translational velocity. In other words, it doesn't actually move.
0,,换句话说 它根本没有动
0,,To figure out why, let's experiment with a bicycle wheel.
0,,为了搞清原因 我们拿自行车做个试验
0,,If you roll the wheel along the floor for one full rotation, that means that the entire
0,,circumference of the wheel will touch the floor, one point at a time.
0,,如果你推着轮子走一整圈 轮子每次只有一个点着地
0,,And the center of the wheel will move forward by a distance that's equal to the circumference of the wheel -- aka its radius, times 2 pi.
0,,轮胎的圆心走过的距离同样也是圆周长2πr
0,,And the time it took to move that distance was equal to the period of the motion.
0,,圆心运动的时间等于运动的周期
0,,So, the translational velocity of the center was equal to the radius, times the angular velocity.
0,,所以平移的速度等于半径×角速度
0,,Now, what about the top of the wheel?
0,,那么轮胎最高点的速度呢
0,,It has the same translational velocity as the center of the wheel,
0,,plus the tangential velocity that comes from the wheel's rotation.
0,,它的平移速度等于圆心的平移速度+转动的切向速度
0,,Because, at the top of the wheel, the tangential velocity is pointing in the direction the wheel is rolling in.
0,,因为 最高点的速度指向轮胎方向
0,,And in the same way, the bottom of the wheel has the same translational velocity as
0,,the center of the wheel, minus the tangential velocity that comes from the wheel's rotation.
0,,同理 最低点的平移速度等于圆心的平移速度-转动的切向速度
0,,Because at the bottom of the wheel, the tangential velocity is pointing opposite to the direction the wheel is rolling in.
0,,因为 最低点的速度与轮胎方向相反
0,,Here's the weird part:
0,,这就是诡异之处
0,,We just saw that the translational velocity of the wheel is equal to the radius, times the angular velocity.
0,,我们刚刚知道 平移速度=半径×角速度
0,,And we know that in general, the magnitude of tangential velocity is also equal to the radius, times the angular velocity.
0,,同样 切向速度=半径×角速度
0,,So, the top of the wheel will be moving exactly twice as fast as the center of the wheel, relative to the ground.
0,,所以  相对于地面 顶部的速度等于圆心速度的两倍
0,,因为合速度=平移速度+切向速度
0,,But the bottom of the wheel won't be moving at all … because its total velocity is
0,,但底部似乎并不会运动 因为它的速度为
0,,its translational velocity minus the tangential, since they're moving in opposite directions.
0,,平移速度-切向速度  而两者大小相等方向相反
0,,As a result, the total velocity at the bottom of the wheel is zero.
0,,结果 底部的合速度为零
0,,Even though the wheel is clearly moving relative to the ground.
0,,即使它相对于底面显然是运动的
0,,But if you look at the wheel's motion at any given instant, you'll see that whatever
0,,但如果你观察轮胎的瞬时变化 你就会发现
0,,point is at the bottom of the wheel can't be moving relative to the ground.
0,,轮胎的瞬时最低点其实是不可能相对于底面运动的
0,,If it was moving relative to the ground … that would be what we call slipping.
0,,不然就成了滑动了
0,,Like when a car is skidding on an icy ground: The wheel isn't turning, but the bottom
0,,就像轿车在冰面上滑动 轮胎没有移动
0,,of the wheel is moving in relation to the ground, because it's sliding along on top of it.
0,,但最低点相对于底面是运动的 因为它本该往前跑
0,,But this wheel isn't slipping -- its bottom has a total velocity of zero, because its velocities cancel out.
0,,但是轮胎没有滑走 它底部的合速度为零 因为分速度全都抵消了
0,,OK, I know I just blew your mind, so while you put your head back together,
0,,打住 我知道你们现在一头雾水 所以在你们回神之前
0,,I want to talk about one more basic quality of rotational motion: angular acceleration.
0,,我来讲个简单的概念吧 角加速度
0,,Based on what you already know about acceleration, you can already guess that angular acceleration
0,,根据你学过的 加速度 的定义 你可以猜出角加速度的含义
0,,is the derivative of angular velocity.
0,,它是角速度关于时间的一阶导数
0,,It's represented by the lowercase Greek letter alpha, and it describes how an object's
0,,angular velocity is changing over time.
0,,用小写希腊字母α表示 它描述了物体角速度的变化率
0,,And as an object rotates, each point on it can actually accelerate in two different ways.
0,,当一个物体旋转时 每个点的加速度其实有两个方向
0,,Radial acceleration is another term for what we've been calling centripetal acceleration up until now.
0,,角加速度 也就是我们之前讲的向心加速度
0,,It's the acceleration inward of any point on our rotating object, and it's equal to
0,,它的方向指向内部 它的大小等于
0,,the angular velocity, squared, times the radius.
0,,角速度²×半径
0,,But there's also tangential acceleration, which describes whether an individual point on a rotating object
0,,但同时还有切向加速度 描述转动物体上一个点的速度
0,,is speeding up or slowing down.
0,,是变快了还是变慢了
0,,So, like linear velocity, tangential acceleration depends on the distance between the point
0,,and the center of the object.
0,,类似平移运动 切向加速度取决于这个点与物体中心的距离
0,,More specifically, it's equal to the angular acceleration, times the radius.
0,,特别的 切向加速度=角加速度×半径
0,,So you see, angular position, velocity, and acceleration relate to each other in much
0,,the same ways that linear position, velocity, and acceleration do.
0,,如你所见 角的位置 速度 加速度之间的关系 与直线的情况是非常类似的
0,,This allows us to talk about rotational motion with terms and equations that are familiar
0,,to us, once we've gotten the basics of translational motion under our belts.
0,,有了平移运动的基础 再学转动运动的术语和方程就轻车熟路了
0,,Next time, we'll see how how the logic of rotational motion applies to another idea: momentum!
0,,下次课 我们来转动运动的另一运用 动量
0,,For now, you learned about the qualities of rotational motion, including angular position,
0,,这节课 我们讲了旋转运动 包括角的位置
0,,angular velocity, periodic motion, and the special case of rolling without slipping.
0,,角的速度 周期运动 以及特例无滑动滚动
0,,We also talked about angular acceleration, as well as constant angular acceleration.
0,,我们还讲了角加速度 也就是瞬时角加速度
