By the 19th century, we were pretty sure there was something
到了19世纪 我们预感到电和磁之间将会发生大事

going on between electricity and magnetism.
First, in the early 1800s, Michael Faraday showed us how a changing magnetic
19世纪初 法拉第用实验证明 变化的磁场产生电动势进而产生电流

field induces an electromotive force, or emf, resulting in an electric current.
He also found that electric fields sometimes act like magnetic fields,
他还发现电场表现得像磁场一样 并给出了计算作用力的方程

and developed equations to calculate the forces exerted by both.
In the mid-1800s, Scottish physicist James Maxwell
到了19世纪中叶 Maxwell也有一些有趣的想法

thought something interesting was going on there, too.
So he decided to assemble a set of equations
他试图给出一组适用于所有电磁相互作用的方程组

that held true for all electromagnetic interactions.
And he did a great job of it, compiling a set of equations
他得出的方程组在电磁学中的地位犹如运动学中牛顿运动定律

as critical to physics as Newton's laws of motion.
And while he was coming up with his all-encompassing equations,
提出这个包罗万象的方程组的同时 Maxwell还预测电磁波的存在

Maxwell predicted the existence of electromagnetic waves.
And these are the waves that help you view the world around you,
这是一种让你看清世界

talk to friends a thousand miles away,
能让你和朋友长途聊天

and heat up that midnight breakfast burrito you've been craving.
以及给早饭加热的一种波

So Maxwell and his equations are, to put it simply, enlightening.
简单地说 Maxwell与他的方程组是具有启发意义的

When James Maxwell created his dream team of electromagnetic equations,
Maxwell创造出的梦幻方程组

he started with the ideas – and the mathematics –
是基于当时物理学家已有的理论想法与数学公式

that other physicists had already established.
But he put them together, to create a new,
但他是集大成者 创建了统一的电磁场理论

complete understanding of electromagnetism.
Maxwell's first equation is a form of Gauss's Law,
Maxwell的第一个方程是Gauss定律

which states that the electric flux through a closed surface
它指出封闭曲面的电通量正比于内部的电荷量

is proportional to the total charge enclosed by that surface.
A "closed surface" in this case is just the surface of any shape
这里的闭曲面不限定形状

that completely encloses a charge,
like a sphere or any other three dimensional shape.
球体或其他三维形状都适用

And electric flux is a measure of the electric field
电通量描述了有多少电场线穿过给定区域

that passes through a given area.
Mathematically, this equation says that electric flux
这个方程描述了穿过任意闭曲面的电通量与闭曲面内部的电荷之间的关系

is the integral of the electric field over the area of the surface,
which is equal to the enclosed charge, divided by the permittivity of free space.
I won't blame you if you don't remember,
这个常数你可能记不得了 它我们之前学过的真空中的介电常数

but the permittivity of free space
is a constant of proportionally we've used before,
that relates electric charge to the physical effect of electric fields.
用来将电荷与电场的物理效应联系起来

If the electric field is constant over the surface,
如果电场在表面上是恒定的 那么方程左边变成E乘以A.

hen the left side of the equation becomes E times A.
Maxwell's second equation is also a form of Gauss's Law,
第二个方程也是一种高斯定律 这次描述的是磁通量而不是电通量

only with magnetic flux instead of electric flux.
Magnetic sources are always dipoles, with a north and south pole,
磁场源头始终是既南极也北极的磁偶极子

and magnetic field lines that leave from the north pole
磁场线从北极出发 最终返回南极

and return back to the south.
When you're looking at how a magnetic field
当你观察磁场与其周围表面交互时

interacts with a surrounding surface,
you see that the field lines that leave the surface out of the north pole
你将会发现 离开北极的磁场线必须穿过表面才能回到南极

must enter back through the surface to reach the south pole.
This results in the overall magnetic flux being zero.
这使得磁通为零

If you compare this with Maxwell's first equation,
与第一个方程比较

you can tell that the format – with the integral of the magnetic field
可以看出方程左边的形式是相同的

over the surface area – is the same.
But here, the integral will always equal zero for a closed surface.
但对于磁来说 封闭表面的积分（即磁通量）总是等于零

Now, Maxwell's third equation doesn't have anything to do with Gauss's Law.
第三个方程离开了高斯定律

Instead, it's Faraday's Law, but slightly different than how we've seen it before.
而是法拉第定律 但与我们之前学的有些许不同

This is how we've seen it before.
这是我们之前学的

If you remember, Faraday's Law of Induction says that
法拉第感应定律告诉我们 变化的磁场会在线圈中产生电动势

a changing magnetic field will induce an electromotive force in a loop of wire.
Maxwell's version is more general, simplifying Faraday's Law
而Maxwell作了简化 适用于感应电动势的一般情况

to show the value of that induced emf.
It says that the emf is equal to the line integral
该式表明 电动势等于电场的闭合线积分

of the electric field over a closed loop.
So with this equation, you can see the connection
这个方程将变化的磁通量与感应电场联系在了一起

between a changing magnetic flux and an induced electric field.
The fourth and final equation is one that
第四个也是最后一个是Maxwell调整最大的方程

Maxwell made the most tweaks to, in order to make it
applicable to all electromagnetic phenomena.
目的是使其能够适用于所有电磁现象

Maxwell's first and second equations were so similar
他注意到电场和磁场的高斯定律已经各有一个方程

one for electric fields and one for magnetic fields
that he knew there must be an equation that complemented Faraday's Law as well.
必须得有一个方程来补充法拉第定律

After all, if a changing magnetic flux produces an electric field,
如果变化的磁通可以产生电场 也应当有描述逆过程的说法

why is there not a complementary law saying the reverse?
Why couldn't a changing electric flux result in an induced magnetic field?
而为什么变化的电通量不能产生感应磁场

Here, Maxwell started with Ampère's Law,
由安培定律 通过导线的电流会在导线周围产生磁场

which states that a current through a wire
induces a magnetic field around a path surrounding the wire.
In order to make this equation work for all possible electromagnetic scenarios,
为了让这个方程能用在各种情况下

Maxwell needed to consider a situation where a magnetic field is induced,
他需要考虑一个不因电流流动而产生感应磁场的情况

but not from the flow of current.
For example, picture a charged capacitor
例如 让一个充满电的电容两端接上导线

that's connected to wires on both sides.
As the capacitor discharges,
随着电容放电

current runs through both wires, generating a changing magnetic flux,
电流通过两条导线产生变化的磁通 与安培定律吻合

just like Ampere's Law says.
But a changing magnetic flux is also induced between the two plates
但是没有导线连接板时 板间仍然会感应出变化的磁通

when there's no wire connecting the plates.
However, there is a changing electric field, and it acts like a wireless current.
因为产生了变化的电场 就像无线的电流一样

In order to account for the magnetic flux
为了表示这个"无线电流"产生的磁通量

generated by this "wireless current,"
Maxwell added what's known as the displacement current into Ampère's Law,
Maxwell将位移电流入到安培定律中 完善了这个方程

to complete the equation.
Despite being called the displacement current,
尽管名字里带有电流 但位移电流其实不是真正的电流

it isn't really an electric current.
It's just called that because it fits into the equation
只是因为它就像真的电流一样适合于方程

just like an actual current does.
Mathematically, the displacement current
位移电流的数学定义是电容随时间变化的电荷量

is equal to the change in the capacitor's charge over time.
And that is equal to the change in electric flux over time,
也就是真空中的介电常数 乘以电通量随时间的变化率

multiplied by the permittivity of free space constant.
With the addition he made to Ampère's Law,
补充完安培定律之后 Maxwell方程组也就完整了

Maxwell's equations were complete! 
And using his laws today, we can see a pattern
现在我们根据他的方程组 可以看出产生电磁场的模式

in the production of electric and magnetic fields.
If a changing electric field is generated,
一旦产生了变化的电场

then a magnetic field is induced,
就会感应出变化的磁场

which results in a changing magnetic field
如此循环往复

that induces an electric field, and the cycle continues.
These oscillations are electromagnetic waves,
这些振荡就是电磁波 由空间中传播的变化的电场和磁场组成的

and they're made up of changing electric
and magnetic fields that travel through space.
Maxwell believed that we could reproduce electromagnetic waves
Maxwell相信我们可以在实验室中再现电磁波 而且他是对的

in the laboratory, and he was right!
To prove it, let's look at an object that can produce electromagnetic waves
为了证明这一点 我们来研究一个在空气中就能

and transmit them through the air: an antenna!
产生和传输电磁波的物体：天线

This antenna is made up of two conductive rods,
天线由两根导电杆组成 分别连接到交流发电机的两端

each attached to opposite ends of an AC generator.
When the antenna is operating,
天线工作时 两根电杆的极性随着发电机改变电压而切换

the two rods switch between being positively charged and negatively charged,
as the generator changes voltage. 
And when one rod is positively charged,
一端带正电时另一个带负电 反之亦然

the other is negatively charged, and vice versa.
When electric current travels up into the top of the rod,
但电流的方向指向杆的顶部

you can use the right hand rule,
我们可以根据右手定则

pointing your right thumb in the direction of the current,
大拇指的方向就是电流方向 四指的绕向就是磁场方向

to see that how the magnetic field flows around the antenna. 
从而看出磁场的走向

The electric fields generated by the antenna itself are easier to track,
由天线本身产生的电场更容易研究 因为它们会从正极移动到负极

since they'll just go from the positive rod to the negative rod. 
But as the direction of current switches,
the direction of both the electric and magnetic fields change.
但是随着电流方向的改变 电场和磁场的方向也不是恒定的

And as the rods switch their charges, 
he waves generated by the initial charge distribution
continue to propagate away from the antenna. 
随着电荷极性的交替 由初始电荷分布产生的波从天线传播开来

So, if you were standing away from the antenna,
you would be able to measure an electric field and magnetic field
that are both constantly changing.
如果你离天线较远 你将能够得到一个不断变化的电磁场

Now, what would that look like? 
那是什么样的呢

To grasp the effect of changing fields in motion,
为了获得场在运动中变化带来的的影响

let's model an electromagnetic wave
as it travels through three-dimensional space.
我们建立一个电磁波穿过三维空间的模型

First, note the direction that the wave is traveling, in the x-direction.
首先 波在x方向上传播

Now plot the electric field,
oscillating back and forth in the y-direction.
现在绘制在y方向上下振动的电场

The electric and magnetic fields always act perpendicular to one another,
so the magnetic field will oscillate in the z-direction. 
电场和磁场总是相互垂直的 所以磁场是在z方向振动

Note that the electric and magnetic fields
注意到电场和磁场同时出现峰值

both peak at the same time, so they're in phase.
因此它们是同相位的

These electromagnetic waves are a type of transverse wave,
这种电磁波是一种横波

which means both fields, electric and magnetic,
act in directions that are perpendicular to the direction
in which the wave is moving. 
即电场和磁场都与垂直于波的传播方向

And how fast do these waves travel?
这些波的传播速度有多快

Maxwell calculated that the speed of each wave
is equal to the electric field's magnitude
divided by the magnetic field's magnitude.
麦克斯韦计算出波的速度等于电场的大小除以磁场的大小

This equation simplifies down to an equation with two constants,
这个方程可以化简成两个常数

the permittivity of free space for electric fields, epsilon naught,
and the permittivity of free space for magnetic fields, mu naught.
真空中的电导率ε和磁导率μ

{\fs30\pos(798,660)}0             0

And this speed works out to 3.00 times 10^8 meters per second. 
这个速度达到每秒3.00×10 米

{\fs30\pos(860,640)}8

We write it simply as small c,
and it's the speed of every electromagnetic wave, ever, at least in a vacuum.
我们用小写的c表示 代表每个真空中电磁波的速度

You may know it better as the speed of light. 
你可能更熟悉光速

After all, light is an electromagnetic wave! 
而光是电磁波

Every electromagnetic wave carries energy through space,
and can reflect off some material, while passing through others.
每个电磁波在穿过其他物体时 都向外传送能量反射物质

But visible light is just one small part of
what's known as the electromagnetic spectrum. 
但可见光只占电磁波频谱的一小部分

Like waves in the ocean, electromagnetic waves
can vary in their wavelength, amplitude, and source.
就像海浪一样 电磁波的波长振幅和来源可能并不相同

The wavelength is the distance between the peaks of a wave.
波长是两个波峰之间的距离

And the frequency is how many times a wave peaks in a given second. 
频率是一个波在单位时间内达到峰值的次数

You might remember when we talked about traveling waves
that a wave's speed is equal to its frequency times its wavelength. 
你可能还记得 行波的波速等于波长乘以频率

And since the speed of light is constant,
you can easily find the frequency if you know the wavelength, and vice versa.
由于光速是恒定的 知道波长就可以算出频率 或同理算出波长

Now, in order to calculate the energy carried by any electromagnetic wave,
为了计算电磁波携带的能量

you need to know the magnitude of the electric
and magnetic fields that compose that wave.
还需要知道组成这个电磁波的的电场和磁场的大小

Specifically, you use these magnitudes to calculate
what's known as the energy density of each field,
我们使用这两个公式分别计算电场和磁场的能量密度

which is the amount of energy stored in a field per unit volume.
即单位体积场中存储的能量大小

Then, you can combine the energy density for both fields,
solving for the total energy per unit volume within the wave overall.
然后把能量密度叠加 求出单位体积的总能量密度

But since you know that strengths of the electric
and magnetic fields are directly related,
但你已经知道电场和磁场有转换联系

you can substitute the electric field magnitude
for the magnetic field magnitude, and vice versa.
你可以用磁场表示电场 或者反过来

This lets you come up with the energy density terms
that encapsulate the energy in both fields, with fewer variables.
这可以让你用某一个能量密度来表示整体 消去一个变量

So, here's the calculation of the speed of light that Maxwell found,
and the constants that it simplified down to.
这是Maxwell发现的光速计算式 以及它的常数形式

You can take our energy density equation
例如这个能量密度公式

and substitute the magnetic field magnitude, B,
with the electric field, times the square root of the permittivity constants.
用电场强度E替代磁场强度B 乘以两个介电常数乘积的平方根

With this simplified energy density equation,
you can then substitute the electric field magnitude
for the speed of light and the magnetic field magnitude. 
综合上面两个式子 你可以用电场表示光的速度和磁场的大小

These equations give the energy density of an EM wave
at any point during its propagation.
这些方程给出了电磁波在传播过程中的任何一点的能量密度

One last important measurement of delivering energy is intensity,
能量传递的最后一个重要指标是强度

which is the energy transported by a wave per unit time, per unit area.
即单位面积单位时间内的波输送的能量

Mathematically, the energy delivered
分子为传输的能量

is equal to the energy density times the volume of space
等于能量密度乘上空间的体积

in which the energy is transported over a period of time.
分母是传输能量所花费的时间和面积

You can then replace energy density
with one of the simplified equations we used earlier,
然后可以用刚才简化公式之一替换能量密度

so the volume of space encompassed by the wave
is equal to the unit area times the distance traveled.
所以波所包围的空间的积等于面积乘以走过的距离

And the distance traveled will be the speed of light multiplied by the time period.
光走过的的距离将是光速乘上时间

After cancelling out like terms,
约去相同项后

you're left with an equation that tells you
how much energy you have per unit area
based on the strength of the electric field,
剩下一个能量强度关于电场强度的关系式

which you can also replace with the magnetic field magnitude.
也可以用磁场强度表示

A lot of math, I know. 
我知道公式挺多的

But the vast knowledge of electromagnetism that we have today,
但我们今天所掌握的电磁学以及延伸的相对论和量子理论领域

and the doors it has opened into the fields of relativity and quantum theory,
are all based on the theories that Maxwell and his predecessors developed.
都是基于Maxwell及其前辈而发展出来的理论

Albert Einstein praised Maxwell specifically for his contributions,
爱因斯坦对Maxwell的贡献尤为赞赏

but it was the combined effort of revolutionary minds
like Maxwell, Faraday, and Gauss that we have to thank
for our understanding of the interaction between electric and magnetic fields.
但法拉第和高斯等革命思想家也为后人理解电磁场做出了巨大贡献

Today we learned about Maxwell's equations
and their unifying power in the field of electromagnetism.
这节课 我们了解了Maxwell方程组及其在电磁领域的大一统

We discussed electromagnetic waves
and how changing electric and magnetic fields propagate through space.
我们讨论了电磁波以及变化的电场和磁场如何在空间中传播的

We investigated the different types of waves on the electromagnetic spectrum
as well as how to calculate the amount of energy they can carry.
我们观察了电磁波谱上不同类型的波 并给出了能量的计算公式

