Light is everywhere, but it's not as predictable as you might think.
无处不在的光可不像你所想的那样听话

It's a wave that travels in straight lines, yet it also reflects off of surfaces,
光是一种沿直线传输的波 但遇到介质改变时会发生反射

refracts through various materials, and generally changes direction all the time!
穿过不同物体时会发生折射 随时都有可能会改变方向

We've learned how to bend light to our will, with lenses and mirrors,
but it's time to take a step back and ask what we can learn from light.
我们知道如何利用各种透镜人为改变光的传输方向

但现在我们来想想光能教会我们什么吧

What can we discover about the universe by taking a closer look at the light
that's produced and reflected all around us?
通过观察我们身边的光 能发现世界的哪些奥秘呢

It's time to use our understanding of the wave nature of light,
to explain what stars are made of,
是时候用光的波动性来解释恒星的构成

why you see rainbows in an oil stain in the parking lot,
停车场地上的油渍里的彩虹

and how some fancy sunglasses can make a bright day a lot more bearable.
以及为什么戴上太阳镜就敢出门了

In order to unlock the secrets that light can reveal to us,
we need to look again at diffraction.
为了揭开光的秘密 我们需要回头研究衍射现象

Remember? That's what causes the pattern of lines that appear
when you shine a light through a pair of thin slits.
还记得吗 光通过一对狭缝时 因为衍射出现了明暗条纹

The bright lines are the result of constructive interference, 
when light waves build on one another, 
while the dark spaces in between are the result of destructive interference.
干涉相长形成亮纹 干涉相消形成暗纹

Exactly how this diffraction pattern looks,
depends on the spacing of the slits and the light's wavelength.
这符合观察的现象 这也和狭缝的位置及光波长有关

So, if you know the distance between the slits,
then you can measure the diffraction lines to get some information about the light source.
如果狭缝的距离已知 通过测量条纹的间距 可以算出入射光的波长

Now, you can also shine light through many equally spaced slits called a diffraction grating.
你也可以让光通过多个等间距的狭缝 即衍射光栅

And when you shine a light through one of these gratings, 
the diffraction lines are much more intense and easier to measure.
光通过光栅形成的条纹更密集 更容易观测

Plus, when there are more slits, there's also more opportunity for destructive interference,
而且 狭缝更多 干涉相消的情况也更多

so the dark spots between bright lines are larger as well.
条纹的明暗效果也更好

Now, if the light source has light of only one wavelength, which is one distinct color,
如果入射光是单波长的单色光

then all the lines would be the same color and would be evenly spaced.
条纹谱线将是同一个颜色且等间距的

But if you have a light source with two wavelengths, 
如果光源包含两个波长

then you'll get multiple sets of bright lines, 
whose color and locations will depend on the wavelength.
那么条纹的颜色和位置将由两个波长分别决定

And if your light source is white light, containing all the visible wavelengths,
如果入射光是白光 包含了可见光范围内的所有波长

then you'll see a little rainbow in the place of every bright line,
那么每个亮纹处都会出现彩虹

because the grating is separating out each wavelength.
因为每个波长的光都会有自己的衍射条纹

These patterns are known as spectra, 
and you can study them to learn about the source of the light.
分光后形成的条纹图案称为光谱 通过研究光谱可以得到光源的信息

To do that, you need a spectrometer,
a tool that uses diffraction grating or a prism to separate the wavelengths.
需要一个分光仪 将光通过衍射光栅分离不同的波长 得到各自的谱线

Let's say that you heat up a cloud of hydrogen until it emits light,
and then you point your spectrometer at the cloud.
你把一团氢加热至发光 然后把分光计对着那团云

The gas will emit a line spectrum, a distinct pattern of lines at certain wavelengths
that correspond to the elemental composition of the cloud – in this case, hydrogen.
气体会激发出与它的波长相对应的独一无二的线性谱线

因为这是一团氢 所以这里激发的氢原子的谱线

The spectrum would look like this, 
它的光谱就长这样

and you'd always see this line spectrum from a heated hydrogen cloud
or a compound that contains hydrogen.
加热的氢或氢的任何复合物的光谱中 都会含有这条谱线

Line spectra work for heated gases under the right low-pressure conditions.
特定压力下加热气体得到的谱线是线性的

But when solid materials or high pressure gaseous objects,
但是固体或高压气体 如太阳 被加热时

like the sun, get heated up, they emit a continuous spectrum of light
that covers a very wide range of wavelengths.
会发出连续的光谱 覆盖很宽的波长范围

And in that case, you can still get information about the light source, 
对于连续光谱 我们仍然可以得到光源的信息

because the continuous spectrum from a heated object also contains absorption lines
因为加热激发出连续光谱蕴含吸收谱线

characteristic wavelengths of light that have been absorbed 
by the same elements that emitted them.
某种物质发射什么样的谱线就会吸收什么样的谱线

The Sun emits a continuous spectrum,
but some elements in its atmosphere absorb some of the light.
太阳光的谱线是连续的 但大气中的一些物质会吸收掉部分波长的光

Hydrogen atoms, for example, absorb light emitted by other masses of heated hydrogen.
例如被加热的氢原子就会吸收一部分光

But you don't always need special equipment to see and study continuous spectra.
但不一定非要复杂的仪器才能研究连续谱

Have you blown a soapy bubble and noticed the bright rainbow colors on its surface?
你研究过吹出来的泡泡上那缤纷的颜色吗

That coloring is also due to interference and the separation of wavelengths,
an effect known as thin film interference.
多彩的原因仍然是不同波长的干涉与分离

我们管泡泡上出现彩虹的现象叫薄膜干涉

Thin films are layers of material whose thickness can be measured in micrometers, 
or even nanometers – of the order of a 'wavelength' of visible light.
这里的薄膜指的是一种极其薄的介质层 厚度只有微米甚至纳米

数量级与可见光的波长相当

For example, a layer of oil on top of water could be a thin film.
水面上的一层油就可以看成是薄膜

Imagine such an arrangement of oil and water,
with a ray of white light coming down from above.
想象水面上盖着一层油 这时有一束光照下来

We know some of the light will reflect off the top of the oil, and some will pass through.
我们知道有部分光透过油 剩下的被反射回去

Of the light that goes through the oil, some of it will reflect off the surface of the water.
而穿过油的光又会被下面的水反射回去

Now, the light that's reflected off the oil will interfere with the light
that's reflected off of the water.
被水反射的光与被油反射的光会发生干涉

And whether that interference is constructive or destructive
depends on the thickness of the oil and the light's angle of incidence.
至于是相长还是相消就要看油的厚度以及光线的入射角了

So ultimately, you end up with both kinds of interference!
最终 干涉相长和相消都会存在

Each kind occurs only for certain wavelengths of light,
depending on the angle at which it's viewed.
观察的角度不同 某种波长条纹的明暗程度也不同

Because, as the viewing angle changes, so does the path length.
因为观察角不同 光走过的距离也不一样

So, different colors undergo a constructive interference at different angles.
因此 各个波长都会出现干涉相长的亮条纹

The result is an alternating pattern of colorful reflected light, and no reflection at all.
结果是出现七彩的图案而没有反射

Constructive interference creates a visible, colored reflection,
while destructive allows light to go through the oil to the water.
相长部分出现条纹 相消部分进入水面

This phenomenon happens not just with layers of liquid,
but also with layers of some transparent solids -- namely, glass!
这种现象不仅出现在液体表面 透明固体也会有这种情况 例如玻璃

You can create a similar effect, if you have a lens with one flat side and one curved side,
and you put the curved side on a flat plate of glass.
如果把平凸透镜的凸面向下放在光滑的玻璃板上

同样可以看见这种现象

As light shines from above and enters the flat side of the lens, 
光先穿过平面镜

some rays reflect off the bottom of the curved lens,
一部分被下表面反射回来

while others pass through into the thin gap of air that sits between the lens and the plate.
另一部分被最下面的玻璃板反射回来

That light then reflects off the bottom plate and returns back through the lens.
这一部分光又重新进入凸透镜

The resulting interference creates a circular rainbow pattern
最终出现了一个从凸透镜与玻璃板接触点展开的彩色同心圆环

that extends out from the point of contact between the lens and the plate.
These circles are known as Newton's Rings, and if the light source is monochromatic,
我们叫它牛顿环 如果光源是单色的

the rings simply alternate light and dark, 
displaying the alternating constructive and destructive interference.
那么圆环只是黑白相间的 代表了干涉相长和相消

Now, if you look at the very center of Newton's Rings,
where the glass plate is in contact with the lens, you'll notice a dark spot.
注意看牛顿环的中心 你会发现它永远是暗的

That's where the reflected wave of light is not constructively interfering with itself.
因为最中心的光无法与自己的反射光发生干涉

Instead, at this point of contact, the reflected ray undergoes a phase shift of 180 degrees, 
essentially skipping forward half of a cycle.
而在这个点上 反射光会有180° 即半个周期的相移

Remember, when a wave is in phase with another wave,
their crests and troughs are amplified,
meaning that the light is brighter, thanks to constructive interference.
两列波同相位时 波峰和波谷处在同一时刻 即振幅得到了放大

And when a wave is out of phase by 180 degrees,
it's destructive, with the crests and troughs cancelling each other out.
而相位差为180°时 两列波的波峰与波谷叠加 振幅被削弱

The resulting destructive interference is seen in the dark spot at the center of the lens.
这就导致了牛顿环中心位置的暗点

When light reflects off of a surface that has a higher index of refraction
than the medium it travels through –
当障碍物的折射率比传输介质的折射率大时

such as light traveling through air and reflecting off of glass
the ray undergoes a destructive, 180-degree phase shift.
例如光从空气传播到玻璃 光波会出现180°的相移

But, if light reflects off of a surface that has a lower index of refraction
than the medium it's passing through, there is no phase shift,
and the wave then constructively interferes with itself.
反之 不存在180°的相移 光束自身得到了增强

Now, light is a transverse wave,
光波是横波

meaning that the wave travels in one direction and oscillates back and forth in a direction 
that's perpendicular to the direction of travel.
它的振动方向与传播方向垂直

And, like all electromagnetic waves, what's oscillating in a light wave, is its electric field.
和其他所有电磁波一样 光波的电场分量在振动

So when a wave strikes an object,
the effects of the changing electric field are felt in a direction
that's perpendicular to the direction, in which the wave is moving.
当光波撞击物体时 瞬时电场会在与运动方向垂直的方向上受到影响

BUT! A light wave's electric field can not only move vertically (that is, up and down) –
但光波不只会在竖直方向上下振动

it can also oscillate horizontally (or side to side),
since that movement is still perpendicular to direction of travel.
在水平方向也会运动 因为水平方向也在传播方向的法平面内

This oscillation is important, because you can limit what light passes through a filter,
depending on which direction its electric field is oscillating in.
将光通过某种滤光器件 就能知道光的振动特性

这点很关键 因为我们可以限制光的振动方向

The filtering of light depending on its oscillation-direction is called polarization.
这种滤光器件利用的是光的偏振特性

The light from a light bulb, or from the sun,
has electric fields oscillating in all possible directions
灯泡发出的光 或者太阳光 它们是朝着各个方向振动的

But you can aim that light through a filter, like a vertical slit,
但你可以对不显偏振态的光加检偏器 一个类似垂直狭缝的器件

so that only one kind of polarized light can pass through.
得到单一偏振方向的光

In the case of a vertical slit, it will only let light through that's vertically polarized
对于垂直狭缝 只能得到在竖直方向上振动的偏振光

– that is, waves whose electric fields are oscillating straight up and down.
也就是说它的电场方向是上下振动的

And if a light wave is horizontally polarized, then it won't be able to pass through the slit.
水平振动的分量是无法通过狭缝的

This is basically how polarized sunglasses work!
这差不多就是偏光镜的作用

Unpolarized glasses only use darkened glass to absorb some of the incoming light.
无偏振的玻璃镜片只能靠材料的吸收效应减弱太阳光

But polarized glasses have lenses that work as vertical polarizers,
blocking out all light except those whose electric fields oscillate up and down.
而偏光镜可以像垂直起偏器一样 过滤掉除上下振动外的所有光

This is particularly helpful when you're on or near the water.
当你靠近水面时它非常有用

When sunlight reflects off of water,
太阳光被水面反射后

each reflected ray is partially polarized in the direction
that's parallel to the surface it reflected off of.
反射光线会在平行于其反射面的方向上被加强

So, when reflecting off of flat water,
the reflected ray becomes partially, horizontally polarized.
所以反射光是部分偏振光

And since your fancy sunglasses only let in vertically polarized light,
your eyes are protected from the glare that comes off the water.
而你的偏光镜只允许透过竖直偏振的光

这就保护了你的眼睛不被水面反射的部分偏振光所刺伤

Next time, we're going to learn about much more complex instruments,
that we use to manipulate light.
下次课 我们会讲更复杂的光学仪器

But today, you learned about how to analyze the composition of a light source、
using diffraction grating and spectroscopy.
但别把今天讲的通过衍射光栅进行光谱分析给忘了

You also observed Newton's rings and the patterns
that arise from the interaction between light and thin films.
我们还观察了牛顿环和薄膜干涉的明暗条纹

Finally, you learned about the oscillation of light waves,
and how polarization filters certain kinds of light.
最后我们还讲了光的偏振特性及起偏与检偏

