Last time, we talked about how charged particles
exert electrostatic forces on one another.
上节课我们学了带电粒子是如何施加力的

We calculated these forces using the charge of each particle:
我们根据粒子的电荷量

which can be either positive or negative, and the distance between them,
极性以及相隔的距离

and we did it with the help of Coulomb's Law:
借助库仑定律计算出力的大小

the equation that tells us
the force generated by two charged particles on one another.
这个方程给出了两个带电粒子之间的作用力

But what if we want to talk about more that two charges,
or if we're dealing with charged objects of various shapes and sizes?
但如果电荷超过两个 或者要计算任意形状和大小的带电物体呢

Coulomb's Law is great for finding the force between small objects,
库伦定律最适用于粒子一样的微小物体

like particles but in physics, we deal with all sorts of shapes and sizes.
但物理学中我们需要处理各种各样的物体

Electric forces are used to bring power to your home,
charge your computer,
and light up the screen that you're using to watch this video.
电力给你家带来能量

给你的电脑充电

为你看这个视频点亮屏幕

These everyday electric phenomena require physical components
that manipulate charged particles in amazing ways.
这些电气现象需要各种神奇的电子元件进行工作

We make electrical components that excite millions of electrons in each pixel on this screen.
我们造的元件可以在屏幕上的每个像素内激发出百万个电子

But how to we design then to transmit just the right amount of electric force?
但我们如何设计元件控制电力呢

We've got some equations and concepts under our belt already,
but we'll need a few more to understand how to control charged particles
and expand the possibilities of electricity.
我们已经掌握了一些概念和公式

但我们还得知道怎么控制带电粒子

来让他们产生电

So we want to describe complex situations involving charged particles
using more than just Coulomb's Law.
库伦定律已经不足以研究带电粒子的复杂情况了

If we have an object with a knows amount of net charge,
如果一个物体的静电荷已知

can we predict how other electric charges will react when they pass nearby?
我们能知道它能如何影响别的电荷吗

Well, British scientist Michael Faraday came up with a way to do just that.
英国科学家法拉第提出了一种解决方法

He hypothesized that every charged object generates an electric field that permeates space
and exerts a force on all charged particles it encounters.
对进入其中的其他粒子有力的作用

他假设每个带电物体周围都充斥着一个场

And he was right: an electric field is a measurable effect
generated by any charged object.
他说得没错 任何带电物体周围产生的电场是可测的

A field carries energy and passes it on to other charged materials
by exerting electric forces.
电场通过施加力 携带能量并传递给其他物体

And we can get to know how electric fields work in a couple of different ways.
我们可以通过几种不同的方式了解电场的工作原理

First there's good old math.
首先需要用到数学

Let's consider a positive point charge which we'll call capital Q.
我们来研究一个叫Q的正电荷

To study the effect that big Q has on other charges,
为了研究这个Q对其他电荷的影响

we'll bring in a small positive test charge, small q,
and measure the force that's acting on it.
我们引入q这个试探电荷 考察它受到的力

Now, when we express it as an equation,
现在我们用方程来描述

the electric field created by a charged object
is the electric force between the objects and the test charge
divided by the magnitude of that test charge.
带电物体周围的电场

等于物体与试探电荷之间的力

除以试探电荷的电荷量

To find F, you just have to use Coulomb's Law.
使用库仑定律就可以得到力（F）

And you only need to know the value for big Q, the point charge.
唯一要知道的是点电荷Q

In fact, you can plug the equation for Coulomb's Law into this equation,
in place of capital F.
其实你可以将库仑定律直接带入 替换掉F

And if you do, you'll see that the magnitude of the test charge cancels out
and we're left with an expression that relies solely on big Q.
带入之后 你会发现试探电荷的q被约掉了

剩下一个只关于Q的等式

Now we've got an equation to calculate the electric field
generated by any point charge.
现在我们有了一个可以计算由任何点电荷产生的电场方程了

But let's make this field even easier to picture.
让我们让电场再直观一点

Another way of understanding what's going on between these charges
is to diagram it with vectors
还可以用矢量图解来理解电荷的相互作用

using what we've learned about Coulomb's Law and force vectors.
根据库仑定律画出力矢量

Again, let's start with our positive point charge, capital Q located at Point A
and our small positive test charge, small q.
我们依然使用带正电的点电荷Q 放置在A点处

以及正的试探电荷q

While both big Q and small q generate electric fields,
we're going to assume that big Q has a much larger magnitude than small q.
尽管Q和q都会产生电场

我们认为q产生的电场相比于Q可以忽略不计

Now let's plot a series of vectors that result from placing small q
at various points around big Q.
现在我们画出在Q周围各处放置q后

得到的一系列矢量

These vectors are called electric field lines
and their purpose is to show the magnitude and direction of the force
exerted on any nearby positive test charge.
这些矢量称为电场线

用来表示试探电荷受到的

静电力的大小和方向

The density of these field lines signifies
the magnitude of the electric force on small q
and the closer small q is to big Q, the greater the force.
电场线的密度暗示了力的大小

q越靠近Q 力越大

And the same logic applies to how we represent negative charges
although we do implement it in a slightly different way.
负电荷的研究也是类似的

尽管有些许的不同

The electric field line diagram for a fixed Q that's negatively charged
would look like that of a positive Q,
but with arrows pointing inward
to signify that positive test charges would be attracted to Q.
带负电的Q电荷的电场线

乍一看与带正电的情况一样

但箭头的方向是向内的的

为了表示试探电荷被吸引向-Q

Now let's see what an electric field looks like for a more complicated situation.
现在我们来看看在更复杂的情况下电场长什么样

Say we have one positively charged particle and one negatively charged particle
that are some distance apart with an equal and opposite magnitude of charge.
假设正负电荷各有一个

两个电荷等量异号 且有一定距离

This pair of particle is known as an electric dipole.
这样的粒子对被称为电偶极子

Since we have two particles that each generate their own electric field,
we can add the fields together to create a total electric field.
两个粒子各自会产生自己的电场

我们把两个电场加起来就能得到完整的电场

This is the principle known as superposition.
这就是叠加原理

Now let's examine the electric field created by this electric dipole
because along the way, that's going to show us
four important properties of electric field lines.
现在我们来看看电偶极子产生的电场是什么样

因为这个例子可以体现出

电场线的4个重要性质

First: the field lines must be tangent to the direction of the field at any point.
第一 任何一点的电场线的方向就是它的切线方向

This means if we place a positive test charge anywhere
the field lines will point in the direction of the force exerted on a positive test charge.
例如 把一个正的试探电荷放入电场的任何地方

电场线的方向就是试探电荷受到的力的方向

This also means that a negative test charge
would feel a force in the exact opposite direction.
也就是说 负的试探电荷受到的力的方向正好相反

Next: the greater the line density, the greater the magnitude of the field.
第二 线密度越大 场强越大

As a test charge moves closer to one of the fixed charges,
the forces on it will be larger, thus the greater number of lines in that area.
试探电荷离点电荷越近

受到的力自然越大 所以线就越密集

All of this together means that the number of lines leaving a charged object
is proportional to the magnitude of its charge.
带电物体发出所有电场线的数量

正比于它的电荷量

If the magnitude of the positive charge in our electric dipole is doubled,
then twice as many lines leave the positive point charge.
如果正电荷的电荷量翻一番

那么流出的电场线条数也会翻一番

The third property of electric field lines
第三 电场线永远

is that the lines always start from positively charged objects
and end on negatively charged objects.
起始于正电物体 终止于负电物体

And if there are no negatively charged objects around,
then the lines just keep going on forever into infinity,
如果没有带负电物体 那么线会延伸到无穷远处

seeking out negatively charged objects wherever they can find them.
直到找到负电物体为止

So in our electric dipole the lines start at the positively charged particle
and move toward the negatively charged one.
所以在电偶极子中 电场线起始于正电荷

并通向负电荷

And the same number of lines come out of each particle
because the magnitude of their charges is equal and opposite.
因为两端的电荷等量异号 

有多少电场线流出 就有多少电场线流入

Finally, the fourth property of electric field lines:
the lines must never cross.
第四 不同的电场线永不接触

Criss-crossing lines means the field acts
in different directions for charges in the same location which is impossible.
电场线相交 说明这一点的力的方向不唯一 而这是不可能的

Now that we know these properties,
we can create field lines for any set of charged objects.
知道了这四个性质后

我们可以自己画出物体的电场线了

So lets look at a scenario with one negatively charged particle with charge -Q
and a positively charges particle with charge +2Q.
假设场中有一个带-Q的电荷

和一个带+2Q的电荷

If a positive test charge were placed directly between the particles
the force exerted on it would be in the same direction
that the electric field points toward the negative particle.
如果在其中加入试探电荷

那么它受到的力的方向 就是电场线指向负电荷的方向

If we zoom out: looking at this pair of particles from far away,
you can see that it looks like the field lines for a single positive point charge.
如果把镜头拉远观察

你可以把它看成是带正电的单个点电荷周围的电场线

Keep in mind, groups of charged particles
can look totally different when viewed from far away.
不过远远看一群带电粒子时 情况可能不同

All right, you're probably wondering why we're still talking about particles
when I spent all that time earlier talking about
configurations of things that we see in real life.
你可能在纳闷 为什么我还在讲微小的粒子

明明我之前谈的是现实中宏观的电器

Now that we know how to build electric field lines
based on a set up of charged objects
let's try to do the reverse
and set up charged objects to achieve a certain purpose.
现在我们会画

多个物体的电场线了

我们反过来试试

让粒子按照我们的意愿进行运动

Let's say we want to create an electric field
where all positive test charges move uniformly in a single direction.
假设我们想要创造一个

能让所有正的试探电荷匀速运动的电场

We can model this as a field created by two infinitely large conductive plates
one positive, and one negative.
我们可以建立两块无限大的导电平板的模型

一块带正电 一块带负电

All positive test charges between the plates
 would move from the positive plate to the negative plate.
极板间所有正的试探电荷

都会从正极板跑向负极板

So we construct the electric field as a series of lines
moving from the positive plate to the negative one.
所以我们的电场线就是一系列从正极板到负极板的线

This pair of plates is known as a capactior
and is an integral part of almost every electronic system
partly because it can use its electronic field to store an electric charge.
这样的一对极板就是电容器

在几乎所有的电路中都有它的身影

主要是因为它可以构造出电场存储电荷

But so far we've only talked about electrical fields
between charged objects like particles and plates.
但到目前为止 我们只讨论了微粒和平板间的电场

So can an electric field exist in a conductor,
where electrons can move around freely in the material?
那导体中存在电场吗

电子能在材料中自由运动吗

To figure this out,
let's imagine we have a conductive sphere with a net negative charge
meaning it has too many free electrons.
为了回答这个问题 我们假设有一个带负电的球体

即存在负的净电荷

These extra free electrons want to move
as far away from one another as possible.
这些额外的自由电子想尽可能远离彼此

This means they redistribute themselves on the surface of the sphere.
这会导致它们会重新分布在球面上

When they do, they've reached electrostatic equilibrium.
这样一来达到了静电平衡

In this state, the excess charges have moved
as far as possible to reduce their forces on one another.
这些电荷尽可能地远离彼此 从而减小相互的斥力

Once these free charges are at equilibrium,
their acceleration is zero,
which means that there are no longer any net forces acting on them.
一旦达到平衡态

加速度为0

也就是所受的合外力为0

And since the electric field represents electric forces acting on nearby charges,
when the net forces are zero, the electric field must also be zero.
而电场力就是周围电荷对其的作用力

当这个力为0时 电场也就为0了

So what do these observations tell us?
这样我们能得到什么结论呢

Well for one thing, it shows that the electric field
inside conductors is always zero
when the system is in electrostatic equilibrium.
起码能说明一点

导体内部的电场始终为0

也就是内部达到静电平衡

And it also shows that the net charge is distributed on the surface.
还说明 净电荷分布在导体表面

These conditions hold true for all conducive materials.
这两个结论适用于所有导体

While the electric field inside the material is zero,
当材料内部的电场为0时

an electric field exists outside the surface of the conductor.
电场存在于导体外表面

Let's look again at the capacitor and see what I mean.
回头看下电容器你就明白了‘

You can see that all excess charge is on the surface of the plates.
你可以看到 所有的净电荷都在平板的表面上

And while no electric field exists inside the plates themselves,
a field is generated between the two.
尽管极板内部没有电场

但两极板之间形成的电场

Now, what if we take a neutral conductive sphere, 
hollow out the inside, and stick a positively charged particle in the center?
如果我们找一个电中性的空心球体 

把一个正电荷放在中心会是什么样呢

The positive charge inside the sphere
attracts the negative charges inside the shell
中心的正电荷

会吸引内表面的负电荷

while it's pushing the positive charges to the surface of the sphere.
而外表面就呈现正电荷了

Once the system is at electrostatic equilibrium,
the observations we made before still hold true.
一旦系统达到静电平衡 之前的观察仍然成立

The charges stop moving, so no electric field exists inside the shell.
内部电荷停止移动 所以球内不存在电场

Now the inside of the shell has a net negative charge
而内表面因为受到中心正电荷的吸引

due to the attraction of the central positive particle
呈现负电荷

leaving the outer shell with a net positive charge.
这使得外表面带上了正电荷

So an electric field is generated from the outside of the shell,
because of the net positive charge.
外壳带上了净的正电荷 从而产生了电场

And while no field exists inside the shell,
尽管球壳的场为0

there is an electric field between that particle
in the center and the inside surface.
但球心和内表面直接存在着电场

Any positive test charges in the region
场内任何正的试探电荷

would follow the field lines
and be pushed toward the negative interior of the shell.
都会顺着电场线 从中心流向内表面

So we've managed to use our knowledge of electric charges and Coulomb's Law
to figure out a way to describe the effect of any charged object 
on the entire universe surrounding it.
我们根据之前的知识以及库仑定律

掌握了如何描述带电物体周围的情况

Later we'll learn about how electric forces and fields
后面的几节课

are just half of the story in our pursuit of
understanding the larger concept of electromagnetism.
我们将深入学习电磁学的更多概念

Today we learned how all objects with net charge
generate electric fields that affect all other charged materials.
今天，我们带电物体如何产生影响其他物体的电场

We learned how to construct electric field lines
and how to calculate the magnitude and direction
of the electric field for a charged particle.
我们学会了电场线的画法以及如何计算电场的大小和方向

Finally, we learned how electric fields interact in capacitors and conductors.
最后 我们了解了电容器及导体中的电场的相互作用

