We couldn't keep the lights on without alternating currents. 
没有交流 电灯泡就不会亮

We've talked about how they change voltage,
 which helps transmit electricity over long distances,
我们说过如何提高电压来远距离输电

but there's so much more to the physics of AC circuitry. 
但交流电的物理概念远不止这一点

For example, how are alternating currents affected
when you add resistors? Or capacitors? Or an inductor? 
例如 加入电阻电容及电感会对交流电产生什么样的影响

These three pieces of the electricity puzzle are used everywhere,
and today we're going to put them together. 
这次课我们来把电路三巨头一锅端了

When you talk about direct current circuits,
describing the voltage and current in a given situation is pretty straightforward.
直流电路在给定电压或电流的情况下是非常简单的

Typically, the voltage source in a DC circuit is unchanging,
so the current will be constant, too.
直流电路中的电压通常不变 因此电流也保持不变

But in an AC circuit,
both the voltage and the current are constantly changing directions,
from positive to negative and back again. 
但在交流电路中 电压和电流的方向都是正负交替不断变化的

So how do you describe values when they're constantly changing? 
如何描述一个处于不断变化状态中的值呢

Well, when a current alternates quickly,
当电流快速变化时

it's changing back and forth between maximum and minimum values,
known as peak current. 
它会在最大值和最小值之间来回振动 我们称为之峰值电流

And 'peak' here means either maximum or minimum, positive or negative,
since the flow of current has the same magnitude. 
这里的'峰值'指的是绝对值大小 因为电流的符号表示方向

Mathematically, a current is equal to the peak current
times a sine function related to the system's frequency, typically 60 Hertz.
用公式表示 电流等于峰值大小 乘上角速度为60Hz的正弦函数

And the same is true for the voltage in an AC circuit.
交流电路中的电压也是如此

It changes between a maximum and minimum peak voltage
in order to generate the alternating current. 
它在最大值和最小值之间变化从而产生交流电

Now, let's say you're calculating the average power consumed by an AC circuit. 
如果你要计算交流电路的平均能量

You can use the handy power expression for DC circuits,
which we've already derived, 
可以直接使用我们已经推导出的直流电路中的能量表达式

in order to find the consumed energy over time,
in terms of current and resistance. 
从而根据电流与电阻计算出能量的大小

Then you can replace the current with our new equation for alternating current. 
现在 我们把新的电流表达式代入公式中

Then, since you want to find the average power,
just take the average of the power expression.
最后 既然我们要求平均能量 我们就对电流的平方取平均

The sine squared function always reduces to one half when averaged.
正弦函数平方在一个周期内的平均值为1/2

This leaves you with an average power of peak current squared,
times resistance, divided by two.
得出平均能量等于峰值电流平方乘以电阻的一半

But you can only take this equation for DC circuits so far,
before you have to start making some serious changes
for it to help you figure out AC circuits.
但是 直流电路的方程需要进行一番调整才能应用在交流电路中

Why? Because of I: the value for the current itself.
因为电流的意义不同了

Think of driving a car in stop-and-go traffic.
假设你在一个寄走急停的路面上开车

You speed up at times, you slow down at others,
but if you average it out over the whole trip,
你时而加速时而刹车 但如果取整个过程的平均速度的话

you've got an 'effective' speed somewhere in the middle.
会有一个在峰值中间某个地方的'有效'速度

That's what current is like in AC calculations.
这就是计算交流电流的情况

So, in order to express current in this equation,
we need a new variable that represents this effective value.
所以我们需要给方程中的电流找到一个新的有效表达式

And that variable is the root-mean-squared, or RMS value, of current.
这就是均方根值(RMS)

It's really just the value you would get if you squared the current,
took the average, and then square rooted it again.
均方根就是对电流取平均再取平方根得到的值

Hence the name: root mean square.
故名均方根

Now, this same derivation works for alternating voltage, as well,
with the RMS value of voltage being equal to the peak voltage
divided by the square root of 2.
同理 电压的RMS等于峰值电压除以根号2

With these two RMS values at your disposal,
you can then use them in place of current and voltage in DC equations,
with power equaling the RMS current times RMS voltage.
将两个RMS带入直流电路能量表达式 得到的乘积就是交流电路平均能量

So, now that we have RMS values
to better describe current and voltage in AC circuits, 
现在我们可以用RMS更好地表示交流电路中的电流和电压

let's think about how we can use the unique nature
of AC circuits to our advantage. 
我们来思考一下如何利用交流电路的独特优势

For example, with coils of wire, we know that when the current is changing,
a magnetic flux is induced in the coil.
我们知道当通电线圈中的电流发生变化时会产生磁通量

And that flux seeks to oppose the current with an electromotive force,
or emf, in the opposite direction. 
磁通量的变化被感应电动势生成的反向电流所阻碍了

And this is the rule that we know as Lenz's Law.
这就是楞次定律

And this relationship works the opposite way as well,
with a changing magnetic flux inducing an emf that opposes the flux.
这种关系反过来也成立 磁通量产生与感应电流唱反调的电动势

So in an AC circuit, what you end up with
is a changing current that induces an opposing magnetic flux,
因此在交流电路中 最终产生的是一种变化的电流

which in turn induces an emf in the opposite direction of the current!
它会感应出相反的磁通量 从而感应出相反的电动势

This induction of an emf that opposes the main current is called self-inductance. 
导体本身电流变化而产生相反电流的电磁感应现象被称为自感

And to calculate an induced emf,
you just take the change in current over time and multiply it by negative L. 
电流随时间的变化率乘上负L就是感应电动势

L is a constant, known as the inductance,
signifying how well that specific coil induces an opposing current,
depending on its shape and size. 
L称为自感系数 表示线圈产生反向电流的能力 取决于线圈形状和尺寸

And it's negative, because the induced emf
is in the opposite direction of the main current.
取负表示感应电动势与原电流的方向相反

Inductance, by the way, is expressed in units called Henrys.
顺便说一下 它的单位用亨利(H)表示

Induction of an electromagnetic force is so useful,
that engineers make coils that are designed to maximize their self-inductance.
电磁感应是非常有用的 工程师制造线圈的目的就是将其效果最大化

These coils that are designed for self-inductance are called inductors.
为产生自感而设计的线圈称为电感器

In a circuit diagram, they look like small coils,
'cause that's pretty much what they are!
在电路图中它们看起来像线圈 因为它们其实就是线圈

So to get a handle on how inductors work,
let's first consider one in a DC circuit. 
为了掌握电感器的工作方式 我们先来看一个直流电路

Let's say this circuit has an inductor connected in series with a battery
that has a constant voltage, V naught.
假设一个电感与一个恒定电压为V0的电池串联

Since most inductors have a natural resistance,
we'll say that there's also a small resistor in series with the inductor and battery.
大多数电感都具有自然电阻 因此我们把这个小电阻单独拎出来

And because we have an inductance L and a resistance R,
we call this configuration an LR circuit.
我们把有电感L和电阻R的电路称为LR电路

If we set up this circuit and then insert the battery,
the voltage will immediately be V naught.
如果我们组装好电路后插入电池 路端电压将立即变为V0

But the current won't reach its maximum value. 
电流却不会立即达到最大值

That's because the inductor opposes the sudden change in current
that was caused by the sudden voltage change.
因为电感不让电流因电压变化而发生突然变化

So the current will increase gradually,
因此电流会缓慢增加

until it eventually reaches maximum current,
which is the battery's voltage divided by the resistance.
直到它达到最大电流 也就是电压除以电阻

The current in this case is kind of like a car
that's accelerating from a dead stop.
就像一辆加速开往死胡同的卡车

Even if you stomp down on the gas pedal,
you won't immediately start going at top speed.
即使油门踩到底 速度也不会立刻达到最大

You're going to have to build up to it over time.
速度需要时间的积累

So you have to consider time when you're dealing with inductors. 
因此处理电感时必须考虑到时间

Mathematically, the current in a circuit with an inductor
is expressed as the maximum current
times one minus e to the negative t over tau.
电感电路中的电流表达式如图 分数写在e指数上

The maximum current is the voltage divided by the resistance,
and tau is the time constant,
电流最大值是电压除以电阻 τ称为时间常数

equal to the inductance divided by the resistance. 
它等于电感除以电阻

This time constant has all kinds of mathematical meaning
that we can't get into right now. 
这个τ的数学意义我们暂时还不能完全理解

But you can see that as time goes to infinity,
you get closer to the maximum current value.
但随着时间的推移 电流曲线会逼近最大值

Put in terms of our car analogy,
the maximum current is like the fastest that your car will go.
延续车的例子 电流最大相当于汽车最终会跑的最快

And the time constant lets you know how long you need
to press down on the accelerator to get there.
时间常数表示加速到最大速度的时间

A small time constant means less time is needed to reach maximum speed,
and also less time to slow down to a stop. 
时间常数越小 表示加速和刹车所花的时间越少

A large time constant means the opposite:
that a lot of time is necessary to speed up and slow down. 
时间常数越大表示相反的情况 加速和减速的时间花的更多

Now, let's say the circuit has reached steady-state,
with the current at that maximum value.
现在假设电路达到稳定状态 即电流达到最大值

There's no longer a changing current,
so the inductor acts just like a piece of wire.
电流不再发生变化 电感就像一根导线一样

But if the battery is suddenly removed, the current won't drop to 0 immediately. 
但是如果电池突然断电 电流也不会马上降到0

Because, remember, the inductor opposes the change in current
with its own changing magnetic flux.
别忘了 电感器会改变自己的磁通量来反抗电流的变化

So after the battery is removed, the inductor generates its own current! 
所以在电池被拿走后 电感会产生属于自己的电流

This is like driving a car and then taking your foot off the accelerator.
这就像开车的时候把脚离开油门

You've stopped the car from going faster, but you won't stop immediately. 
你不再给轿车加速 但车也不会马上停下来

Instead, you'll slow down over time, before you stop entirely.
而是速度慢慢地减小

So you can write this as the decreasing version of the earlier current equation, 
你可以把它写成刚才电流加速方程的减速版

with current equaling the maximum possible current, times e to the negative t over tau. 
如图

I max is the same, and tau is the same,
and once enough time has passed, then the current is equal to 0.
Imax和τ是相同的 经过足够长的时间后 电流相当于0

So, inductors oppose a change in current, whether it's an increase or a decrease. 
无论电流是增加还是减少 电感都随时奉陪

When you switch a device on or off, and you notice a delay,
that's probably because an inductor is in the system.
当你打开或关闭设备时的响应延迟 可能就是电感在系统中起作用

By flipping the switch, you've either started or ended a voltage supply,
but an inductor in the system delays the current
from starting or stopping immediately. 
开关可以瞬时控制电压 但系统中的电感却可以让电流反应迟钝

OK so that's inductors 101!
这就是电感第一课

Now let's go back to AC circuits,
and combine an inductor, a resistor, and a capacitor all in one circuit. 
现在回到交流电路 把电感 电阻和电容放在同一个电路中

Each component will behave differently
when connected to the source of alternating voltage.
三种元件在连接交流电时反应都不相同

So before we combine everything,
let's look at each component as if it alone were in series with the source.
在我们一锅端之前 先看看它们各自与电源串联的表现

Let's start with a resistor.
让我们从电阻开始

When the voltage is at peak voltage,
the current through the resistor will also be at peak current. 
当电压处于最大值时 通过电阻的电流也处于最大值

Since the voltage and current peaks occur at the same time,
the two are said to be in phase.
由于电压和电流的峰值同时 因此我们认为两者是同相的

For inductors and capacitors, however, the story's a little different. 
对于电感或电容器来说 情况就不一样了

As the alternating voltage is applied across the inductor,
当电感器两端施加的是交流电时

the opposing emf that's induced equals
the amount of voltage that drops across the device.
产生的感应电动势等于电感电压的下降量

The inductor has an insignificant amount of resistance,
电感的电阻很小

so when it's the only device in the circuit,
all the voltage must be opposed by the opposing emf. 
如果电路中只有电感的话

电源电压会全部被感应电动势抵消

In this equation, the voltage is at maximum
when the current is changing the fastest,
and the voltage is 0 when the current isn't changing at all. 
电流变化最快时电压处于最大值 电流没有变化时电压为0

This means that, when the current is 0,
there's peak voltage,
也就是说 电流为0时 电压取得最值

and when current is at its peak and unchanging, the voltage is 0. 
而电流达到最大值不再变化时 电压为0

When you express this graphically,
it means that the current lags behind voltage by 90 degrees, or a quarter cycle. 
画个图看 电流比电压要慢90度 或者说四分之一个周期

So in AC circuit inductors, we say that the current and voltage are out-of-phase,
所以我们说 在交流电路电感器的中 电流和电压是异相的

which means they don't peak at the same time. 
也就是说它们不会同时出现峰值

Capacitors in AC circuits are also out of phase, but for a different reason. 
交流电路中电容器的电流与电压也不同相 但是原因有所不同

Let's look at a circuit with only an alternating voltage source and a capacitor. 
我们看看只有交流电压源和电容器的电路

When the current flows in one direction,
charge momentarily builds up on one of the plates. 
当电流向一个方向流动时 电荷瞬间积聚在其中一个极板上

So when the voltage changes from positive to negative,
所以当电压从正向到负向变化时

the capacitor acts as a smaller voltage source that still pushes the current along.
电容充当了一个小的电压源 仍然会推动电荷流动

In this case, current leads voltage by 90 degrees,
changing the direction ahead of the voltage source.
这时 电流领先电压90度 比电压的变化超前

So let's sum up: Current in inductors lags voltage. 
总结一下 电感器中的电流滞后于电压

Current in resistors is in phase with voltage.
电阻中的电流与电压同相

And current in capacitors leads voltage. 
电容器中的电流超前电压

Another thing that sets inductors and capacitors apart from resistors
is that they don't release a lot of heat. 
电感和电容与电阻不同的另一个理由是它们不会释放热量

The only part of an AC circuit that dissipates power
as thermal energy is the resistance. 
交流电路中 只有电阻以热的形式消耗能量

Inductors and capacitors both have negligible resistance,
and they don't dissipate heat,
电感和电容的电阻值可以忽略不计 而且不会发热

but they do have voltage drops across each component. 
但是它们都能分得电压降

So their voltage drops will still affect how much voltage the circuit can supply
to other components that DO need to dissipate power. 
这就会影响到其他依赖电压做功的元件

So, when you have an AC circuit with a resistor, inductor, and capacitor in series,
如果交流电路中电感电阻与电容串联在一起

you can calculate the voltage supplied,
你就可以算出总电压

versus the voltage applied across each component,
by adding all of the component voltage drops together. 
把所有元件的电压降加在一起 与施加在每个元件两端的电压进行比较

Every voltage drop peaks at a different time,
but the sum will always equal that of the source.
尽管每个电压不同时达到峰值 但总和却始终等于电源电压

What goes in must go out! 
进去多少就出来多少

This wraps up our last look at electricity! 
这就是电学的最后一课

But you can't forget everything you've learned about electromagnetism yet,
because it's coming back in a shiny new form, known as light!
千万不要学完就忘 因为电磁波会以一种新形式归来 也就是光！

Today, we learned about currents and voltages in AC circuits.
这次课我们讲了交流电路中的电流与电压

We also learned about inductors
and we combined our knowledge of AC circuits with inductors,
我们还介绍了电感 并将电感引入电路

capacitors, and resistors in order to analyze
how voltage and current interact with an alternating voltage source. 
与电容和电阻放在一起 分析它们在交流电路中的表现

