It was the autumn of 1820. 
在1820年的秋天

Hans Christian Oersted had just discovered
the connection between electricity and magnetism. 
奥斯特刚刚发现了电和磁之间的关系

Meanwhile, a French physicist named André-Marie Ampère
was experimenting with some wires, 
同时 有一位叫安培的法国人在摆弄着电线

trying to learn more about the connection
between currents and the magnetic fields they create. 
他想深入的探究电流与其产生的磁场之间的关系

He took two parallel wires,
他取了两根导线 并排放好

ran a current through both of them in the same direction,
然后给它们通上同向的电流

and the wires attracted each other! 
两根导线居然靠在一起了

And when he ran a current through both wires in the opposite directions,
the wires repelled each other!
当通过导线的电流方向相反时 导线相互排斥

Studying this strange force between the wires
led Ampère to discover one of the most fundamental laws of electromagnetism:
what we now call Ampère's Law. 
为了纪念他 我们把它叫做安培定律

通过研究导线的奇怪运动 安培发现了电磁学最基本的定律

And that's not the only weird thing that current-carrying wires do. 
载流导线还有其他奇怪的行为

If you wrap a current-carrying wire into a coil,
the inside of the coil acts like a magnet. 
如果将导线绕成线圈 那它的内部会像磁铁一样

There's a north pole at one end of the coil and a south pole at the other. 
线圈的一端是北极 另一端是南极

And if you put a loop of current-carrying wire in a magnetic field, it'll turn! 
如果把一个载流线圈放在磁场内部 它还会发生旋转

Ampère's law lets you calculate the strength of the currents
and magnetic fields in all these situations. 
以上场景中的电流大小和磁感应强度都可以通过安培定律计算出来

This also helps explain how motors work. 
它还能解释电动机是如何工作的

So first, those two parallel wires: why do they attract and repel each other? 
第一个问题 为什么两条平行导线会发生吸引或排斥

It's easier to see why the two wires act the way they do
if you look at one wire first. 
如果先分析其中一根导线的话 这个运动问题会简单很多

Like we talked about in our last episode,
the current running through a wire generates a magnetic field.
上节课我们讲了 通电导线周围会产生磁场

So, let's say you have a long, straight wire with a current running through it.
假设你有一条又长又直又带电的导线

The current will create a magnetic field circling the wire. 
电流会产生一个围绕导线的磁场

That magnetic field decreases the further you are from the wire. 
离电线越远 磁场效果越弱

If you draw a circle that's, say, a centimeter from the wire,
the magnetic field along the circle will have a set strength. 
如果画一个离导线一厘米的圆 圆周上每点的磁感应强度是相同的

Ampère realized that the stronger the current is that's running through the wire,
the stronger the magnetic field would be along that circle. 
安培发现通过电线的电流越强 沿圆周的磁感应强度就越大

That's the basic logic behind Ampère's Law. 
这是安培定理所表达的逻辑

But this is physics, and in physics, 
we tend to express relationships in terms of equations. 
但在物理学中 我们倾向于用方程式描述关系

The equation for Ampère's law applies to any kind of loop
not just a circle surrounding a current,
无论通电的回路是圆形或是其他形状

no matter how many wires there are or how they're arranged or shaped. 
无论导线有多少根 排列方式如何 安培定理都适用

The law is valid as long as the current is constant. 
只要电流是恒定的 该定律就适用

The equation itself says that the integral of the magnetic field, B, along the loop,
times the cosine of theta, with respect to distance,
方程的左边是回路内的磁感应强度与夹角余弦的积分

is equal to a constant – called mu_0 – 
multiplied by the current running through the loop. 
方程的右边是一个常数μ 与环路电流的乘积

{\fs30\pos(692,662)}0

This equation just means that the total magnetic field along the loop
is equal to the current running through the loop, times a constant number. 
方程的含义是 沿环路的总磁场与环路内的电流成正比

The constant mu_0 is sometimes called the magnetic constant,
and it's equal to 4 times pi times 10to the -7th Newtons per Amperes squared.
这个常数μ 被称为(真空中的)磁导率 大小如图所示

{\fs30\pos(382,664)}0

Now, you may have noticed that there's an integral
 on the left-hand side of the equation for Ampere's law. 
你应该已经注意到方程的左边是一个积分

And you might remember that we use integrals
when we need to add up lots of infinitely tiny values.
你应该记得 只有对无限小求累和时才会用到积分

Well, in Ampère's Law, we're adding up
all the little bits of magnetic field along the loop. 
在安培定律中 我们是把环路中所有的小磁场加起来

We're saying that all those bits of magnetic field added together
are equal to the enclosed current, times the magnetic constant. 
我们说 所有小磁场的累和 等于电流乘以磁导率

B is the strength of the magnetic field at each point along the loop.
B是圆周上的每个点处的磁感应强度

Theta is the angle between the magnetic field and each point on the loop. 
θ是磁场方向与环路上点的方向之间的夹角

And ds is referring to each infinitely tiny section of the loop. 
ds是每个微小的环路元

The mathematics of Ampère's law can get very complicated very quickly. 
安培定律的计算难度立马就上去了

But to get a basic sense of how it works,
为了分析最基本的原理

let's return to our scenario: a circle around one long straight wire. 
我们回到一开始的长直导线周围的圆周上去

We're trying to find the magnetic field at each point on the circle – that's B – 
in terms of the enclosed current and the radius of the circle. 
给定电流和半径后 圆周上的每个点上都有各自的磁感应强度B

So first, let's solve the integral in Ampère's law,
to get the total magnetic field along the circle.
我们先来计算方程左边的积分 即沿回路的总磁场大小

According to the law, we're solving the integral of the magnetic field,
times the cosine of theta, with respect to the points along the circle. 
图中方程表示 磁场的和乘上θ的余弦乘上回路元

But we can simplify this integral pretty easily. 
但这个积分很容易化简

First, you'll notice that the magnetic field coming from our wire 
is parallel to the circle at every point. 
首先注意到 磁场的绕向就是圆周方向 即两者平行

So the angle, theta, is 0, and the cosine of 0 is 1. 
所以夹角θ是0 而cos0 = 1

Anything times 1 is equal to itself, 
so we can just knock the cosine of theta term out of the integral. 
1乘任何数等于任何数 cosθ这一项可以省去不写了

Now we're left with the integral of the magnetic field, B,
with respect to the points along the circle. 
然后再看每个点的磁感应强度大小

But every part of the circle is the exact same distance from the wire! 
但圆周上的每个点到导线的距离都相等

So the magnetic field will be the same at every point. 
所以每个点的磁感应强度也相等

In other words: B is constant, so we can move it in front of the integral sign. 
也就是说B是恒定的 我们把B写到积分号外面去

Now all we need to do is figure out the integral of all the points along the circle,
which is equal to the circumference of the circle. 
现在只需要对回路元求和 等于圆周长

So, 2 times pi times the radius. 
即2πr

Putting that all together, 
we find that when we apply Ampère's law to a long straight wire,
the total magnetic field along a circle surrounding a wire
 is equal to B times 2 times pi times the radius. 
综上 安培定理应用在长直导线时形式为B·2pir

And that total magnetic field
is equal to the magnetic constant times the enclosed current. 
而它等于磁导率乘以环路电流

So! For a long straight wire, B is equal to the magnetic constant
times the enclosed current, divided by 2 pi r. 
因此长直导线的磁感应强度 等于磁导率乘以环路电流除以环路周长

The equation for the magnetic field along a circle surrounding one wire
知道了一根导线圆周上的磁场方程以后

turned out to be really important for Ampère
 when he was trying to figure out what was going on with two wires. 
安培现在就可以研究两根导线的运动情况了

When both wires had current running through them in the same direction,
they attracted each other. 
两根导线通上同向电流时 它们互相吸引

And when the current was going in opposite directions,
 they repelled each other. 
电流方向相反时 两根导线相互排斥

It's easy to see why, if you apply the first right-hand rule.
借助右手定则的话 很容易得到答案

That's the one that says if you point your right thumb
in the direction of a current and curl your fingers,
the magnetic field points in the same direction as your fingers. 
右手大拇指沿电流方向 磁场就是其余手指弯曲的方向

So first, let's look at the wires with currents running in the same direction. 
首先我们看看同向电流的情况

For this example, we'll say that they're vertical wires,
with the current flowing upward. 
假如我们把导线竖直摆放 电流方向向上

If you point your right thumb in the direction of the current in each wire,
your fingers will curl in the direction of the magnetic field. 
右手拇指指向导线中电流的方向 四指的弯曲方向就是磁场方向

The magnetic field from the wire on the left will be pointing to the right.
左侧导线的磁场指向右侧

And the magnetic field from the wire on the right will be pointing to the left,
so the wires will attract each other. 
而右侧导线的磁场指向左侧 因此导线互相吸引

For the case where the current is flowing in opposite directions,
the reverse is true, so they'll repel each other. 
电流流向相反时结果也相反 所以导线会相互排斥

Ampere also wanted to find the force from the magnetic field on the wires. 
安培想给出导线受到磁场力的表达式

Like we talked about last time,
the force depends on the angle between the current and the magnetic field,
the strength of the current, the length of the wire, 
and the strength of the magnetic field. 
类似的 这个力取决于导线长度和电流与磁场的夹角及各自的强度

Calculating that magnetic field, B, was the tricky part.
计算磁感应强度B是最麻烦的部分

But the equation he came up with, the one that we now call Ampere's Law,
但他给出的 被称为安培定律的方程

allowed him – and future physicists! – to figure out what B was 
in a lot of situations, including the case of the two parallel wires. 
为后世的物理学家们提供了B的计算方法 例如两条平行导线的情况

So the two parallel wires attracted and repelled each other
because of the magnetic field created by the current. 
电流产生的磁场使两根平行导线相互吸引或排斥

What about the coil of wire that turned into a magnet? 
那么变成磁铁的线圈是什么情况呢

Well, you can probably guess that its behavior also has to do
 with the magnetic field produced by a current. 
你可以猜到它的运动行为也与电流产生的磁场有关

See, that coil of wire is a special shape called a solenoid. 
这样的线圈称为螺线管

And when a solenoid has a current running through it,
当螺线管中有电流通过时会产生磁场

it produces a magnetic field, all of which goes through the inside of the coils. 
几乎所有的磁场都会穿过螺线管内部

If you curl your right hand around the solenoid so that
your fingers point in the direction of the current running through the loops, 
your thumb will point in the direction of the magnetic field. 
右手顺着电流方向握住螺线管 此时大拇指将指向磁场N极方向

Ampère's law is useful for solenoids, too: 
安培定理对螺线管同样适用

it says that the magnetic field inside the coils, 
B is equal to the magnetic constant, times the current 
running through the coils, times the number of coils. 
线圈内部的磁感应强度B 等于磁导率乘以线圈电流乘以线圈匝数

So that's what happens when loops of wire create a magnetic field. 
这就是用线圈产生磁场的情况

When you stick a loop of wire in a magnetic field,
something a little stranger happens: the loop of wire turns. 
当你把半圈导线放入磁场时 导线会发生神奇的旋转

That's because the magnetic field creates a torque on the wire. 
这是因为磁场在导线上产生扭矩

Take a look at this loop of wire. 
比如这个线圈

The horizontal parts of the loop are parallel to the magnetic field,
so it won't exert a force on them. 
环路的上下边平行于磁场 所以磁场对它们没有力的作用

But the vertical parts of the loop are perpendicular to the magnetic field,
so it will exert a force on them – a force that turns the loop. 
但左右边与磁场垂直 会受到磁场力的影响 迫使线圈转动

From the last episode, 
we know that the force from the magnetic field on the wire

 will be equal to the current, times the length of 
that part of the coil, times the magnetic field. 
上节课我们教了磁场力的公式 如图

And we can use the second right-hand rule
to figure out the direction of that force. 
我们可以根据第二右手定则确定磁场力的方向

If you point your hand in the direction of the current,
then bend your fingers in the direction of the magnetic field,
your thumb will point in the direction of the force. 
四指指向电流方向并向磁场方向弯曲 那么拇指方向就是受力方向

Which turns out to be away from you for the left-hand side of the coil,
and toward you for the right-hand side. 
容易验证 线圈的左侧边远离你运动 右侧边则朝向你运动

{\pos(606,512)}力的方向：ⓧ                        ⊙

So the coil turns clockwise. 
所以线圈顺时针旋转

This is how electric motors work:
they have an electric current that continuously flips directions,
making loops of wire spin. 
这就是电动机的工作原理 通过不断颠倒电流方向 使线圈发生旋转

Those moving loops of wire can be used to do mechanical work,
这些旋转的线圈可以做机械功

like turning the drum in your washing machine, or your power drill,
or the fan that probably cools your computer. 
例如洗衣机里的滚筒 电钻的钻头或计算机的风扇

There are electric motors all over the place. 
电动机无处不在

So the next time you wash your clothes, or put together some furniture, 
你下次用洗衣机洗衣服 或是用电钻改装家具

or use your computer without it overheating,
或是在电脑拼命散热时打游戏

or do anything else that involves an electric motor, you have Ampère to thank. 
等等涉及到电动机的日常时 别忘了对安培老爷子说声谢谢{\fn隶书}~

Today, you learned about Ampère's law,
and how it applies to a long straight wire. 
这节课 我们学习了安培定理及其在长直导线情况下的用法

We also talked about the forces between two parallel wires, 
and the magnetic field created by a solenoid. 
还讨论了两条平行导线之间的磁场力及螺线管产生的磁场

Finally, we described the torque on a current loop. 
最后 我们讲了线圈回路上的转矩

