Imagine you're floating down a river.
想象一下你在一条河上漂流

Maybe the stream is calm and serene, flowing without obstruction.
也许水面开阔 水流平静平静

Or perhaps it's a rushing river, churning and splashing over rocks!
也可能是一条奔腾的河 水流拍打着岩石

Well, the way water moves in a river is a lot like how electricity flows through a wire.
电流通过导线的方式就像水流通过河床

But when we say that electricity is flowing, we're really talking about the flow of electrons.
但是当我们说电流时 我们真的是在说电子的流动

Electric current is the total amount of charge
passing through a wire over a period of time.
电流是单位时间内通过导线的总电荷量

But how does current actually form?
但电流究竟是如何形成的

What can it pass through?
它能流过什么东西

And what determines how strong it is?
又是什么决定了它的本领大小呢

It's time to sit back, relax, and go with the flow.
是时候坐下来放松放松 随波逐“流”了

Let's talk about how we get charges to flow from one place to another.
我们来讨论怎么让电荷从一个地方流到另一个地方

Last time, we learned that when there's a difference in electric potential between two points,
上次课我们学过 当两点点存在电势差时

the voltage gives charged particles, like electrons,
the energy to move from one place to another.
电压会提供能量 让带电粒子也就是电子 发生位移

Just like a river flows from high elevation to low elevation,
electric charge flows from high voltage to low voltage.
水往低处流 电荷也是从高压流向低压

So, we need a way to generate a voltage that
gets charge to flow continuously, creating an electric current.
所以我们得想办法产生电压 让使电荷不断流动来产生电流

Before the 19th century, scientists had been able to generate static charge
by rubbing different materials together.
19世纪前 科学家知道不同材料的摩擦可以产生静电荷

But they couldn't do much more than create small sparks.
但他们只能产生一些小火花

They didn't fully understand what they were doing,
他们不完全知道自己在做什么

so they couldn't figure out how to create a constant voltage
to generate a steady flow of electricity.
所以不知道怎么创造出能产生稳定电流的恒定电压

To solve this problem, Italian scientist Alessandro Volta invented the first voltaic cell,
意大利科学家Volta发明的第一块伏打电池解决了这个问题

which uses chemical reactions to create an electric potential difference
between two pieces of different metals, known as electrodes.
它通过两块金属电极间发生的化学反应产生电位差

When the two electrodes are connected, current begins to flow.
当两个电极连接后电流就开始流动

We call these connection points terminals,
我们把这些连接点称为端子

and we can connect multiple voltaic cells together
by placing wires between their opposite electrodes.
用导线连接相异的电极 从而把电堆串接起来

When one or more voltaic cells are combined,
their voltages add up, and together they form a battery.
当电堆组合在一起后 它们的电压累加起来形成了电池

Today's batteries operate under the same principle as the very first voltaic cell.
今天的电池与第一块伏打电池的原理相同

Now that we have a source for our current,
we'll also need a ground that's connected to the wire.
有了产生电流的源头 我们还需要一个接地的导线

This is just a common conductor that ensures the current
这是一个常见的导体

always has a path to a large reservoir of charge -- usually the Earth itself.
为了确保电流始终能通向储存着大量电荷的地球

Next, once we can generate an electric current,
we'll need a way to describe how strongly the charge flows.
现在我们能够产生电流 就需要一种能描述电流强弱的方法了

If you picture the cross section of a wire,
如果你画出导线的截面图

you can measure how much charge flows through
that cross section over a period of time.
你就能测量出某段时间内流过的电荷量了

The amount of charge moving past this point, divided by the time period,
通过这个点的电荷量 除以时间长度

gives us a value in Coulombs per second, which we call by the special unit, amperes.
得到的量单位是库伦每秒 我们称之为安培

So one Coulomb of charge passing through that cross section of wire
over one second is equal to one ampere of current.
因此导线横截面在1秒内通过1库伦的电荷量 它的电流强度为1A

OK but wait.
稍等一下

Did you notice that we're talking about positive charge flowing through a wire?
注意到没有 我们讨论的是流动的正电荷

How can that be?
这怎么可能

After all, the current is made up of negatively charged electrons moving through the wire.
毕竟电流是由带负电的电子组成的啊

Well, when American polymath Benjamin Franklin did experiments with electricity in the 1700s,
当美国博学家Franklin在18世纪做电力实验时

he established what he thought to be the direction in which electricity flows,
and he named it the "positive" direction of current.
他将自认为电荷流动的方向 命为电流的正向

It's a convention we still use today.
这个惯例我们沿用至今

It wasn't until much later that we learned the direction Franklin chose
was actually the opposite of how electrons move in a wire.
很久以后我们才知道 他选取的方向与电子实际运动方向相反

But as far as electric current is concerned,
但就电流来说

the flow of negatively charged electrons in one direction
is equivalent to the flow of positively charged particles in the opposite direction.
负电荷的流动相当于正电荷向方向流动

While this can be confusing,
这听上去非常饶人

remember that when we talk about the flow of current,
但你只要记住 我们说的电流方向

the convention is to say the current is in the direction that positive charge flows.
默认是指正电荷的运动方向

Now, if you've ever installed a battery in anything
如果你给任何东西装过电池的话

you also know that one terminal of a battery is called positive and the other one is negative.
你就会知道电池的两个端子分别叫做正极和负极

And conventionally speaking, current flows from the positive to the negative terminal.
按照约定 电流从正极流向负极

But this means that electrons must flow from the negative terminal of the battery to the positive.
但这意味着电子必须从电池的负极端子流向正极

Picture the positive terminal as the start of our river, up in the mountains,
想象正极端子就是河流的源头 位于山顶

and the negative terminal as the end of the river, draining out into the ocean.
而负极端子就是河流的终点 通向大海

In a river, the strength of the water's flow depends on
how far the river drops from a high point to a low point.
对一条河来说 水流的流速取决于源头和终点的落差

And the same is true for electric current and voltage.
电流和电压也是如此

A high voltage typically corresponds to a high current in a circuit.
高电压通常对应于电路中的大电流

But voltage alone doesn't determine how much current flows.
但只靠电压不能确定有多少电流通过

Just like rocks and branches obstruct the passage of water,
就像岩石和树枝阻碍水的通过一样

the materials used to conduct electricity have properties that impede the perfect flow of electrons.
导电材料也会阻碍电子的自由通行

This property is known as resistance.
这个特性被称为电阻

And resistance is described in Ohms,
电阻以欧姆(Ω)为单位

where one Ohm of resistance would let one Volt of potential generate one Ampere of current.
1Ω的电阻能让1V的电动势产生1A的电流

When resistance is constant, voltage is directly proportional to current.
电阻不变时 电压与电流成正比

And this relationship is known as Ohm's Law.
这个关系称为欧姆定律

This law assumes that the resistance of a material is constant.
该定律假定材料的电阻是恒定不变的

So we can express voltage simply as current times resistance.
所以我们可以简单地将电压表示为电流乘上电阻

There are substances in which the resistance is not constant,
and it changes with current or voltage.
有些物质的电阻不是恒定的 而是随电流或电压而变化

But for many materials,known as ohmic materials,Ohm's law works quite well.
但许多材料都符合欧姆定律 它们称作欧姆材料

Now, in ohmic materials, we can use our new expression of Ohm's Law
to predict and calculate the behavior of a circuit.
在欧姆材料中 欧姆定律的变形可以预测和计算电路的工作状态

Let's say we have a 9 Volt battery,
假设我们有一个9V的电池

and we want to know how much current it supplies
to a light bulb when we complete the circuit.
我们想知道在一个电路中 点亮一个灯泡要提供多少电流

If we know the system has a total resistance of 15 Ohms,
如果我们知道电路的总电阻是15Ω

we can divide the battery's voltage by the resistance,
我们就能用电池的电压除以电阻

to find that it has a current of 0.6 amperes, or 600 milliamperes.
求出电流为0.6A 即600mA

And whether it's a light bulb, a speaker system, or a supercomputer,
无论是灯泡 扬声器 还是超级计算机

most electrical devices and materials contain some level of resistance.
绝大多数的器件和材料都存在电阻

Even wires in a circuit have some resistance,
就连导线中也有电阻

but compared to the resistance of a connected device like a light bulb,
但相比连接的灯泡等电器中的电阻

it's so minuscule that we typically neglect it.
导线的电阻实在太小了 完全可以忽略

But you want to know a neat trick?
想知道一个小把戏吗

Well it doesn't matter because I'm going to tell you, anyway.
不管你想不想知道我都会告诉你的

If you can make certain conductive materials extremely cold,
you can bring their resistance to zero.
如果将某些导电材料的温度降到非常低 可以得到零电阻

We call these materials superconductors,
这些材料称为超导体

and trust me when I say that research into these materials
is a very important -- and lucrative -- field of study.
相信我 超导材料的研究不仅重要而且有商机

Because, if you can reduce the resistance of a material,
by getting rid of that natural loss of energy,
如果你能移除能量损耗 来降低材料的电阻

you can significantly increase the amount of electricity you transmit.
你就能极大提高电流的传输能力

And in all aspects of engineering, efficiency is key.
在工程的各个方面中效率都是关键

Now, in that spirit, I should probably point out here that
the whole point of batteries isn't to just push electrons around.
说到这个 我应该提一下 电池的作用不只是推动电子运动

We need to put those electrons to work.
我们要让电子做功

For example, when we attach a battery to a light bulb,
比如 我们接上灯泡时

we take the potential energy in the battery and turn it into what we need, light.
我们是把电池中的势能转化成所需的光能

As current flows through the light bulb,
电流通过灯泡

the small piece of filament provides resistance,
一小段灯泡提供电阻

which transfers electric energy into thermal energy and light.
将电能转化成热能和光能

And since we're dealing with energy transformed over time,
我们讨论的是一段时间内能量转移

what we really want to know is how much power is used by the bulb.
我们真正关心的是灯泡上消耗的能量大小

Power is the amount of energy transformed by a device over time.
功率描述了设备在单位时间内转移的能量

And by "transformed," I mean the energy is converted from electric energy
into some other useful kind of energy, like heat or light.
我说的转移 是指电能转化成其他类型的能量 例如热或光能

We've already learned how to calculate how much energy
我们已经学会了计算

is in a certain amount of charge
that's moving between a difference in potential -- that is, the voltage.
在电势差 即电压之间 移动的一定量电荷要花的能量了

And since charge transferred over time is just current,
因为某段时间通过的电荷量就是电流

it follows that the power used by the bulb is equal to the current in the circuit
功率的另一个因子是灯泡两端加的电压

times the voltage across the system.
因此灯泡的电功率等于电路中的电流乘以电压

And just like in our other calculations of power,
our resulting units are in Watts, named for Scottish inventor James Watt.
和其他功率的单位一样是瓦特(W) 以苏格兰发明家Watt的名字命名

This equation holds true for the power used by any electronic device,
or the power supplied by a battery.
这个公式适用于任何电子设备和电池供电的器件

Now, anything that consumes power
from a light bulb to a refrigerator to an entire house
任何耗电的设备 灯泡 冰箱 家用电器等

can be modeled in our equations as a resistor, because they create resistance.
都可以看成是电阻 因为它们都阻碍了电子的运动

And if you want to find the power that's consumed by a resistor,
如果你要求电阻消耗的功率

you can substitute Ohm's law into the power equation
to discover some helpful relationships that hold true for all ohmic materials.
把欧姆定律代入功率方程 得到一个对任何欧姆材料都适用的关系式

Let's start with the fact that power is a function of current through, and voltage across, a resistor.
功率是通过电阻的电流I 与电阻两端的电压U 的二元函数

And Ohm's law is about relating voltage, current, and resistance together.
而欧姆定律是电压 电流和电阻的关系

So, you can either replace the current in the equation,
and get a new power equation in terms of voltage and resistance
所以既可以消去方程中的电流 得到功率关于电压和电阻的表达式

…or you can replace the voltage, and get an expression in terms of only current and resistance.
也可以消去电压 得到关于电流和电阻的表达式

This is especially useful when you don't have
all the possible information about the circuit.
当你没有得到电路的所有信息时 这个公式就非常有用了

So that's your introduction to electric currents!
这就是我们对电流的介绍

They really are just like flowing rivers!
它们真的就像是流动的河流

And, once you understand the elegant math behind them, they're almost as beautiful.
而且它们背后优雅的数学理论 几乎是同样美丽

Today we learned about what defines electric current
and how we generate it using voltaic cells that make up batteries.
今天 我们学习了电流的定义 以及如何组合伏打电堆形成电池产生电流

We also learned about Ohm's Law and the relationship between voltage, current, and resistance.
我们还了解了欧姆定律以及电压 电流和电阻之间的关系

Finally, we discussed what power is and how we measure the power produced and consumed in a circuit.
最后 我们讨论了电功率 以及如何度量电路中产生和消耗的功率

