By now, thanks to our lesson on circuit analysis and previous Crash Course Physics episodes
根据之前的电路分析与我们的课程学习

you know your way around a basic DC circuit.
你知道我们马上就要来研究直流电路了

You've learned how to simplify circuits with resistors
你已经学会如何简化串联和并联的简单电阻电路了

connected in series and parallel with a single battery source,
which is great!
很厉害

But a lot of the real-world circuits that you encounter
但我们实际生活中的电路

and will have to describe
are much more complicated.
要复杂的多 我们稍后会讲

For example, what happens when there are multiple
batteries, connected in parallel?
例如 多个电池并联是什么情况？

And what happens when we add capacitors into the mix,
当我们在电阻电路中加入电容时应该怎么分析

with resistors in our DC circuits?
On this, our last go-round inside a DC circuit,
在电学部分的最后一次课中

we'll encounter junctions, loops, and capacitors!
我们来讲讲电容 节点以及环路

Circuits aren't always just a battery powering a set of resistors.
电路并不仅有电源和电阻

The design of a circuit depends on the needs of the system it operates,
电路的设计来自系统运行的需求

and we need tools to take any configuration into account.
我们需要一个可以研究任何电路的工具

In the mid 19th century, a German physicist named Gustav Kirchhoff
19世纪中期 德国的物理学家Gustav Kirchhoff

expanded on the principles of Ohm's law to improve our ability
拓展了欧姆定律

to calculate current and voltage in complex electrical circuits.
让我们可以计算复杂电路中的电流与电压

Kirchhoff took laws we already knew: the conservation of charge and of energy
他根据我们已知的电荷和能量守恒的关系

and established two rules for circuit analysis.
提出了电路分析的两条准则

is something we've actually already discussed.
The first rule, which deals with conservation of charge,
第一条准则与我们已经讨论过的电荷守恒有关

It's known as Kirchhoff's Junction Rule,
叫做节点电流定律

and it states that the sum of all currents entering into a junction
流入某节点的电流的总和

is equal to the sum of all currents leaving the junction.
等于流出该节点的电流总和

Like I've been saying: What goes in must come out!
就像我一直说的：有进必有出

The second rule, based on the conservation of energy,
第二个准则基于能量守恒

is a little harder to grasp, but trust me, it works!
虽然有点难懂 但相信我 这是真的

It's Kirchhoff's Loop Rule,
称为回路电压定律

and it says that the sum of all changes in potential around a loop equals zero.
说的是闭合回路中所有元件两端电动势的变化之和等于零

So, why would you need to know that's a thing?
知道这个准则能怎么样

Well, remember, batteries supply potential,
想想 电源提供电动势

and then that potential, also called voltage,
电动势又叫做电压

drops across resistors.
经过电阻时会降低

It's kind of like a ride on a roller coaster.
这有点像乘坐过山车

You may climb up steep slopes and fly around the track,
你可以沿着轨道飞来飞去

doing loop-da-loops to your heart's content and your stomach's discontent
刺激你的心脏 折磨你的胃

but you always start and end in the same place.
但你总会在同一个地方停下

Likewise, in a circuit, every battery is like a climb in height, gaining potential,
在电路中 电源就像是上升段 提高电动势

and each resistor is a drop.
而每个电阻是下降段 消耗电动势

But no matter which way you go in the circuit,
无论你在电路中走哪条路

you'll always end up where you started.
都要回到起始的地方

So let's put these rules to the test.
所以我们来验证这两个规则吧

Here's a circuit that wouldn't be easy to solve with only Ohm's law.
这个电路只用欧姆定律不太好做

It has two batteries and four resistors,
它包含两处电源和四个电阻

with a combination of series and parallel connections.
既有串联也有并联

You can simplify the two resistors in series down to one,
你可以先把这俩电阻合成一个

but after that, how do you tackle the rest?
然后就做不下去了

If you want to find the current through each branch,
如果你想求出每个支路的电路

and the voltage drop across each resistor,
以及每个电阻两端的电压

you're gonna need Gustav's help!
你就需要基尔霍夫的帮助

The first step of using the junction rule is to label all the junctions.
使用KCL前你需要找到所以的节点

Each junction is a point on a wire that's connected to two or more circuit elements.
节点是超过一条支路的交点

Then, you label all the different currents in the diagram.
然后标出不同支路的电流值

There are only three different wire branches,
这个电路只有三个分支

so there are three different currents in the circuit.
因此要标出三个电流

Kirchhoff's junction rule tells us that everything entering junction “a” must leave it too.
KCL告诉我们 流入节点a的一切电流都会流出

Mathematically, this means that I2 is equal to the sum of I1 and I3,
写出数学表达式就是 I2 = I1 + I3

since it's I2 that splits off into two branches.
因为 I1 和 I3 是 I2 的两个分支

Notice, by the way, that we've assigned the current directions the way we have,
注意我们是怎么定义电流方向的

because they make sense with the orientation of the batteries,
我们定义 电源内部的电流方向是从负到正

going from the negative to positive terminal.
But no matter which way you orient them, in your equations,
但无论你怎么定义方向

all the values will work out the same way.
整体的相对关系的保持不变的

If you've correctly chosen the direction of current,
方向选择正确后

then their values will come out positive, like current should.
电流值就是正的 这是显然的

But if you've chosen the wrong direction,
但如果方向反了

then the value will end up being negative!
电流值就是负的

OK, back to the action.
好了 继续做题

Let's call the equation with the current values "equation one"
我们先把这个电流关系式叫做”方程1“

and return to it later, when we need it.
后面会用到它

Now it's time to try out Kirchhoff's Loop Rule!
现在来用KVL了

You can draw a loop around any part of the circuit
你可以任意画一个回路

where you can imagine a charged particle moving around the circuit in a circle,
然后想象电荷沿着回路绕圈

ending back where it started.
但每次都会回到起点

To put it simply, wherever there's a loop,we can use the loop rule!
简而言之 只要有回路我们就可以用KVL

We've got one loop in the top half of the circuit,
上半圈有一个回路

and a second loop in the bottom half,
下半圈也有一个

and there's actually a third loop here too.
这个也是回路

It's the entire outside of the circuit!
是整个电路的外圈

Now you've got your loops,
找到回路后

and you're going to use them to solve the three unknown current values.
就可以算出未知的三个电流值了

Let's begin with loop number one.
我们从回路1开始

In this loop, you have one 20 Volt battery
这个回路中 有一个20V的电源

and two resistors, a 5 Ohm and a 40 Ohm one.
还有两个电阻 分别是5Ω和40Ω

You know that there's a voltage gain across the battery
我们知道电源可以提高电压

and a voltage drop across both resistor 2 and resistor 1.
电阻1和电阻2消耗电压

The voltage gain across the battery is 20 Volts,
电源升高的电压是20V

but you don't know the voltage drops across the resistors.
但你不知道两个电阻消耗的电压

Thanks to Ohm's law, you can substitute the voltage drop across each resistor
根据欧姆定律 我们可以把电阻消耗的电压

with the current times the resistance.
表示成电流乘上电阻值

Now you've got two unknowns in this equation, which we'll call "equation two."
这个式子中有两个未知量 我们叫做“方程2”

Let's set that aside as well.
写出来放在一边

Next, let's look at loop two.
接下来看回路2

In this loop, you've got two batteries and three resistors.
在这个回路中有两个电源和三个电阻

If you follow the direction of the loop,
如果你顺着电流方向看

you see that both batteries add voltage,
你会发现两个电源都是提供正压的

because the loop direction goes from their negative end through to the positive end.
因为它们内部的电流都是从负到正

Additionally, all the resistors will subtract voltage,
而且所有的电阻都消耗电压

because the loop goes in the same direction as the current.
因为环路的方向与电流同向

So it's important to draw your current directions first,
所以最重要的是确定电流的方向

in order to make this clear.
后面才不会乱套

Now, you want to do the same thing you did for the first loop,
现在你想重复回路1的操作

which is to sum up all the changes in voltage to 0.
让所有电压的变化量为0

And then you just substitute Ohm's law in for every resistor's voltage,
然后根据欧姆定律

to get terms of current and resistance.
用电流与电阻的积来替换电压

Now you have this third equation, which we'll call "equation three."
现在我们有了“方程3”

While you could go on and create an equation for the third loop,
虽然你可以继续计算环路3

you actually don't need to,
但这是多余的

because the junction rule gives you an equation to use here.
因为KCL已经提供了“方程1”

So at this point, you have the three equations\Nyou need to solve everything!
这个节点的三个未知数已经有了三个独立方程

So let's first revisit equation one
我们将方程2的 I1 和方程3的 I3 带入方程1

and replace I1 and I3 with equations two and three.
Now you have an equation entirely in terms of I2,
现在你有了一个只含 I2 的方程

which you can solve to find that I2 is equal to 1 Ampere.
解得 I2 = 1A

Once you have this value,
解出 I2 的值后

you can easily solve equations two and three
带入到方程2和3中

by substituting in the new I2 solution.
就可以很容易解出 I1 和 I3

And there you go!
然后就解完了

If you wanted to know any of the voltage drops across the resistors,
如果要求任意电阻的压降

all you'd have to do is multiply the resistance in question
只需要用相应电阻的阻值

by the current passing through that resistor.
乘上通过该电阻的电流

For instance, the voltage drop across resistor 2
例如，电阻2两端的压降就是5Ω的电阻乘上1A的电流

would be the resistance, 5 Ohms,
multiplied by the current passing through that resistor, which is 1 Ampere.
That's a total voltage drop of 5 Volts.
总压降就是5V

And the drop across resistor 1 in the same loop
同回路中的电阻1的压降为40Ω的电阻乘上0.375A的电流

would be the resistance, 40 Ohms,
times the current through the resistor, which is 0.375 Amperes.
That comes out to a voltage drop of 15 Volts,
出现了15V的压降

which makes sense,
这就对了

because then the sum of each drop in the loop
因为环路的电压变化

is equal to the voltage supplied by the battery.
等于电源提供的电压

And those are Kirchhoff's Laws – the Junction Rule for current and the Loop Rule for voltage,
上面讲的就是KCL和KVL的例子

with a little Ohm's law utilization as well.
也用上了一点欧姆定律

Now it's time to reintroduce our old friend the capacitor!
现在来重新认识我们的老朋友 电容器

In a DC circuit, a capacitor is useful for storing charge temporarily,
在直流电路中 电容器用于充放电荷

then releasing it again later on.
But so far we've been dealing with circuits that have a constant flow of charge,
但目前我们碰到的都是电荷恒定

or those that have reached steady state.
或者到达稳态的电路

With capacitors, we deal with transient conditions,
有了电容后 我们可以处理瞬态条件

or circuit responses that change with time.
或者时变的电路响应

From our earlier lessons, you know that the amount of charge stored in a capacitor
我们已经知道 存储在电容器中的电荷量

is equal to the voltage across the capacitor times its capacitance.
等于电容器两端的电压乘上电容量

And you can store this charge by connecting a capacitor in series with a battery,
你可以把电容与电源串联

letting current flow from the battery into the capacitor,
使电流从电源流入电容

until the capacitor's voltage is equal to the battery's.
直到电容的电压等于电源的电压 从而储存电荷

But what happens when you connect multiple capacitors together,
但如果多个电容组合在一起

like we do with resistors, in series and in parallel?
像电阻串联或并联时 会发生什么

Well, if you have several capacitors connected in parallel,
并联的电容使电路的整体电容增加

the overall capacitance of the circuit increases.
In this circuit diagram,
在这个电路中 三个电容器与同一个电源相接

we have three capacitors\Nconnected in parallel with a single battery.
Current will flow into the capacitors,
电荷会流入每个电容

and will stop when each capacitor holds the maximum amount of charge.
分别充满后停止

So, how can you describe the equivalent capacitance\Nof a circuit like this?
这种情况怎么能描述等效电容呢

Easy: the total amount of charge is the sum of the charges
很简单 总电荷量是每个电容的电荷之和

held by each individual capacitor.
is equal to the capacitance times the voltage across each one.
而你知道每个电容的电荷等于电压乘上电容

And you know that the charge held by each capacitor
And since every point of a conductor has the same potential,
导体每个点的电动势相等

and all the conductors are connected,
all devices connected in parallel will have the same voltage.
因此所有并联的元件电压相等

So, you can simplify the charge equation
所以 电荷方程可以化简

to say that the equivalent capacitance of the circuit
然后得到 并联电路的等效电容等于每个电容之和

is equal to the sum of all the individual capacitances.
Note that this is the not the same as the parallel equation for resistors!
请注意 这与电阻的并联方程不同

Capacitance is unique in this way.
电容和电阻还是有区别的

In fact, the convention is also reversed for capacitors connected in series,
事实上 电容与电阻的串联情况也是相反的
which will have a lower overall capacitance.
串联电容的等效值更低

For example, if you have a circuit with three capacitors connected in series with a single battery,
如果电路中有三个电容器与电源串联

then the current still stops flowing when the total voltage across the capacitors equals that of the battery.
当三个电容的总电压等于电源电压时 充电停止

The charge contained by each capacitor is the same,
每个电容器所含的电荷量相等

because current can't flow through the capacitors,
因为电流不能流过电容

only on either side of them.
只能在电容的某一侧流动

So if one plate of the first capacitor has a positive charge,
如果第一个电容的左极板带有正电荷

then the other plate in that first capacitor has an equal and opposite negative charge.
那么右极板会带有等量的负电荷

This leads the plate of the next capacitor
这导致第二个电容的左极板带有等量的正电荷

to have an equal and opposite positive charge,
since the amount of charge in the plates,
因为极板的电荷量以及导线并没有变

and the wire that connects them, hasn't changed.
But the nearby charged plate redistributes the charge to compensate.
但相邻的极板会重新分配电荷进行补偿

This effect carries all the way through,
一直传递到最后一个电容的右极板 直到它充满与第一个电容左极板等量的负电荷

until the last plate of the third capacitor has a negative charge
equal and opposite to the first capacitor's positive plate.
So you can picture the entire set of capacitors
所以可以将串联的所有电容

as one big equivalent capacitor.
看成一个等效电容

For devices in series, the voltage drops across each element
对于串联的元件

equal the voltage provided by the battery.
压降之和等于电池提供的电压

So to find the equivalent capacitance in this case,
为了找到串联电容的等效电容值

just substitute in the charge equation (voltage-times-capacitance)
只需要把电压方程中的每个电压替换为电荷量除以对应电容

for each voltage across the capacitors.
The charge contained by each capacitor is still the same,
每个电容器所含的电荷量相等

since the charge on each positive and negative plate
因为每个电容的正极板和负极板上的电荷是相同的

is the same for each capacitor.
Therefore, you can factor out charge,
约掉Q以后 得到了串联电容的等效电容值

and you're left with the equation for equivalent capacitance
of capacitors connected in series.
So for series capacitors,
串联电容的等效电容值 小于所有单个电容的最小值

the combined capacitance is less than the weakest individual capacitor.
And guess what.
你猜怎么着

This wraps up our review of electricity!
电学我们就说到这了

Now all that's left to learn about is the other side of this same force:
现在电磁力只剩下一半了

the realm of magnetism!
也就是磁力！

Today we learned about Kirchhoff's Laws
今天我们学习了基尔霍夫定律

and how we can rework conservation of charge and of energy
复习了电荷和能量守恒定理

to analyze more complex  circuits.
借以分析了更复杂的电路

We also discussed how capacitors function in a typical DC circuit
我们还讨论了电容在直流电路中的工作原理

and the ways they behave when combined in series and parallel connections.
以及在串并联连接时的工作方式

