The shock you get from a doorknob.
门把手给你的打击感

That trick you used to do with a balloon, to make your hair stick up.
让你头发反重力的气球

Or, of course, a lightning strike.
当然 还有被雷劈

They're all governed by the same principle: static electricity.
它们都是因为静电

Static electricity occurs when an object obtains
当物体带有一定量的净电荷时

a net amount of positive or negative electric charge,
creating an imbalance that wants to be returned to equilibrium.
电荷为了回到平衡态而重新分布 于是产生了静电

Its effects aren't always as dramatic as lightning, though.
静电的结果不总是电闪雷鸣

Let's take two pieces of tape that are both stuck to a table.
假设桌上贴着两条胶带

If you rip them both off the table and try to stick them together,
从桌上揭下来 把它们靠在一起 应该很容易粘住 对吧

that should be easy enough, right?
But it turns out that they repel one another.
但它们其实互相排斥

But try this: Stick one on top of the other, rip the pair off the table,
如果把一条胶带贴着另一条上面 然后再揭下

and then separate the pieces.
They're no longer repelled – now they're attracted to one another!
现在它俩就不排斥反而相互吸引了

In the first scenario, both pieces of tape stole negative charges from the table.
第一种情况下 两条胶带同时从桌上带走了负电荷

And since like-charges repel, the pieces moved away from one another.
而"同种电荷相互排斥" 因此两条胶带就分开了

In the second scenario, one piece of tape stole negative charges from the other,
而在后一种情况下 一条胶带是从另一条身上带走的负电荷

leaving the pieces with opposite overall charges, making them attract.
使得两条胶带带上了相异的电荷 于是相互吸引

Our study of electricity begins here:
电学的学习从这里开始

with basic observations about electric charges that, hundreds of years ago,
几百年前人们对电荷的简单观察

sparked the imagination and innovation that changed our world forever.
启发了后人的创新 永远改变了这个世界

0,,{{\p1\1img(E:/zfb.png)\pos(1066,672)}m 0 0 l 0 325 l 324 325 l 324 0
To understand electricity, you should start with an atom.
为了理解什么是"电" 我们应该从原子开始研究

Atoms contain charged particles – positive protons and negative electrons.
原子包含两种带电粒子 带正电的质子和带负电的电子

And generally there's an equal number of each,
通常两者的数量相等 净电荷为0

meaning the net electric charge of the atom is 0.
It's electrically neutral.
呈电中性

In solid materials, protons stay fixed,
在固体中 质子固定不动 而电子则可以随意运动

but some electrons are free to move around.
These moving electrons are called free electrons.
这些运动的电子称为自由电子

They reside in an atom's outer shell as valence electrons
处在原子的最外层的自由电子充当价电子

and are easily plucked off and carried around,
在外力的作用下

when acted upon by an outside force.
很容易失去电子

How easy it is for electrons to move around depends on the material.
是否容易失去电子取决于材料

And we describe the materials in the same manner we do for heat transfer,
类似导热本领 我们用导体和绝缘体来描述它们

with conductors and insulators.
Materials that are conductors, like copper,
像铜这样的导体材料 电子很容易从固体中通过

let free electrons move freely throughout the solid,
while insulators, like wood, hold on to them tightly, limiting their flow.
而木头这样的绝缘体 紧紧地束缚着电荷 电流无法形成

So we've got insulators and conductors with free electrons moving around in them.
我们讲了导体和绝缘体控制电子移动的本领

But what causes these charged particles to move in the first place?
但电子的运动最先是由什么引起的呢

The answer is an imbalance of electrical charge,
答案是电荷的不平衡

when some part of an object has a different number
即某种电荷的数量

of free electrons than another part.
与另一种不等

When we talk about an object having an overall negative charge,
我们说一个物体带负电 说的是它负电荷更多

we mean that it has too many electrons.
And when we talk about an object having an overall positive charge,
带正电的情况同理

we mean it's missing free electrons.
This imbalance can be created and resolved in lots of different ways.
使电荷平衡和不平衡的方法有很多

Say you have a glass rod that's electrically neutral, and you rub it with a cloth.
用丝绸摩擦一个电中性的玻璃棒

That physical interaction causes electrons to hop onto the cloth,
这种物理作用使得电子跃至丝绸 玻璃棒就留下了正电荷

leaving the rod with an overall positive charge.
This is called charging by friction.
这叫摩擦起电

Both the cloth and rod began with a neutral charge,
让原本都是电中性的物体带上相异的电荷

but after friction, the rod has a net positive charge.
But whether the rod ends up with a net positive or negative charge
但玻璃棒带哪种电荷取决于用什么材料摩擦

depends on the materials that you use.
The ancient Greeks actually rubbed fur against amber,
古希腊人发现 用羊毛摩擦过的琥珀

and discovered that the amber would then attract hair and feathers.
可以吸引头发和羽毛

Today, we understand that the fur stole electrons during the process,
今天 我们知道 羊毛在摩擦的过程中夺走了电子

giving the amber an overall positive charge, just like the glass rod.
给琥珀留下了正电荷 就像刚才的玻璃棒一样

Now, it's important to note that
需要声明的是 整个过程没有产生额外的电荷

no new charges were created during this process.
The overall charge between the two objects is still zero.
两个物体带的总电荷为0

This is known as the law of conservation of electric charge.
这就是电荷守恒定律

It says that you can never create a net electric charge.
你无法创造出净电荷

Instead, charge can only move from one place to another.
电荷只能从一处转移到另一处

Now, if we bring our positively charged glass rod
如果把带正电的玻璃棒与电中性的玻璃棒接触

in contact with another, neutral rod,
some of the negative charge – that is, some electrons –
一些带负电的电子

will jump from the neutral rod to the positive one,
会流向带正电的玻璃棒

until both objects have the same distribution of charge.
直到两者的电荷分布相同

So now we have two rods that are both slightly positive.
得到了两根带少量正电荷的玻璃棒

This is called charging by contact.
这叫接触起电

When the two objects touched, charges moved between them.
两个物体接触时 电荷相互流动

OK, so, charges can move when different materials touch each other,
两种材料接触时 电荷会流动

either through friction or simple contact.
无论是摩擦起电还是接触起电

But materials don't actually have to touch
但为了起电 不一定非要让两个物体真的接在一起

in order for their electrons to get all rearranged.
Say you bring a positively charged rod close to a metal conductive rod.
假设你拿着带正电的玻璃棒靠近一根金属棒

Then, the electrons in part of the metal rod
金属棒中的电子会流向靠近玻璃棒的一端

will be drawn towards the positive rod.
Now, the side with more electrons has a negative charge,
负电荷较多的一端呈负电

leaving the other side of the rod with fewer electrons and a positive charge.
另一端负电荷相比正电荷要少得多 于是显正电

You know what we've done here?
你知道我们做了啥吗

We've polarized the metal rod.
我们把金属棒极化了

We've redistributed the charge in order to create an imbalance of charge
我们修改了电中性的物体的电荷分布 创造出电荷不平衡的条件

within an object an object that's still electrically neutral.
Now, imagine that we slice the metal rod right down the center!
假设我们在金属棒正中切开

It still hasn't touched the positive rod,
我们没有接触正极这一端

but since we split it while an imbalance was present,
而且是在电荷不平衡时切开的

we're left with one positive side and one negative side.
得到的应该是一个正极和一个负极

This process is known as charging by induction
这种称为感应起电 在不接触的情况下得到净电荷

creating a net charge without contacting another object.
Now, if a charged object is connected to
如果一个显电性的物体

a much larger neutral conducting object,
与一个巨大的电中性物体接在一起

then the net charge gets redistributed
净电荷被重新分配 于是微小的带电物体失去了大部分电荷

so that the smaller object loses most of its net charge.
How large an object are we talking about, exactly?
这个物体能有多大呢

Well, how about Earth?
地球够大了吧

The Earth's surface is a fairly good conductor in most places,
大部分的地表是良导体

and, for our purposes, it can be considered neutral.
方便起见 可以看成是电中性

So, connecting a charged object to the ground
将一个带点物体接地

creates a way for the charge to leak into the Earth,
创造一个电荷漏向地球的通道

rendering the object electrically neutral.
使物体成为电中性

This is known as grounding.
这种做法称为接地

So, let's say we repeat the previous experiment,
but we bring a negatively charged rod close to our neutral one.
假设我们换用负电荷接触 重复刚才的实验

The neutral rod becomes polarized,
不带电的棒被极化

with a net positive charge close to the charged rod
and a negative charge on the opposite side.
靠近玻璃棒的一段带正电 而另一端带负电

But if we ground the metal rod,
the negative charges repelled by the charged rod
now have a place to go: the Earth!
但如果把它接地

被正电荷排斥的负电荷有地方去了 那就是地球

The negative charges scurry away,
leaving the metal rod with an overall positive charge.
负电荷很快地流光了 留下全是正电荷的金属棒

Now, if we sever the connection to the ground,
our rod remains positively charged!
然后再断开与地面的接触

就得到了一根带正电的棒了

This process required no contact between the rods,
这个过程两根棒没有彼此接触

only a connection to the ground.
只与地面接触了一次

OK, so we've talked about how opposite charges attract
and like charges repel,
我们讲过异种电荷相互吸引

同种电荷相互排斥

but how do we quantify those interactions in terms of equations and units?
但我们怎么用式子和单位来量化这种相互作用呢

Well, we'll want to find the force on charged particles in Newtons.
我们相用N来表示电荷的相互作用力

But to calculate the number of Newtons,
we'll first need to measure the charge,
denoted by "q", in units called Coulombs.
计算有多少N之前

我们得先用库伦(C)

来表示电荷q

Since objects can be positively or negatively charged,
"q" can have both positive and negative values.
因为物体既可以带正电也可以带负电

因此q既可以是正数也可以是复数

For example, one electron has a charge of
negative 1.6 times 10 to the negative 19th Coulombs.
例如 单个电子包含的电荷量为1.6×10   C

{\fs30\pos(968,634)}-19

That means there are 6.24 times 10 to the 18th electrons for every negative Coulomb!
也就是说1C包含了6.24×10   个电子

{\fs30\pos(822,588)}-19

This value – the charge of a single electron in Coulombs –
is known as the elementary charge, and it's denoted with a lowercase "e".
单个电子的电荷量

称为元电荷 以C作单位时用e表示

We'll use this notation a lot when talking about protons and electrons,
since protons have a charge of positive e and electrons of negative e.
我们之后用经常+e和-e分别表示质子和电子的电荷量

Now that we have a way to measure the charge,
we can calculate the force between particles.
有了电荷的单位以后

我们就能计算作用力了

And the equation we use is very similar to the one we use with gravitation.
与引力的表达式非常相似

It's just that, instead of using kilograms to find Newtons,
here we're using Coulombs to find Newtons.
但我们不是用距离来求力

而是用电荷

Our equation here states that the force between
two charged particles is equal to the product
表示两个电荷作用力的表达式中

of the two charges, divided by the distance between them squared.
力正比于两个电荷量乘积与距离平方的比值

And the distance is squared because, just like gravitation,
when the distance between objects doubles,
the force between them reduces to a quarter of the original value.
和引力一样 距离是二次方

所以当距离翻倍时

作用力减小到原来的四分之一

And, ALSO as with gravitation, this force has its own proportionality constant.
与重力一样 这个力也有自己的比例系数

It's labeled lower-case k,
and its value depends on the medium that surrounds the charges.
用k表示 大小取决于包围电荷的是何种媒介

The vast majority of the time,
多数情况下

the medium you'll be working with will just be the air, or possibly a vacuum.
采用的媒介是空气 或者是真空

And in both cases the constant is 9 times 10 to the ninth Coulombs.
无论哪种情况 k都是9×10 N·m /C

{\fs30\pos(882,634)}9      2   2

So when you multiply the rest of the expression by k,
that gives the result in terms of Newtons.
之前的表达式乘上k之后

得到的结果以N为单位

This whole expression is known as Coulomb's Law.
完整的式子就是库仑定律

And k is often known as the Coulomb's Law constant.
k也称为库伦常数

Now, gravitation and electrostatic forces work in totally different ways,
of course, so we have to express them differently, too.
引力与库仑力的性质截然不同 所以表达式也不一样

The force of gravity, after all, is always attractive.
引力的效果总是吸引

But the electrostatic forces can be either attractive or repulsive,
depending on the signs of the charges.
但库仑力是吸引还是排斥

取决于电荷的极性

So the product of the two charges can be negative or positive,
with the resulting sign of F being plus or minus,
corresponding to either attraction or repulsion.
因此乘积既可能是正数也可能是负数

这样力的符号既可能为正也可能为负

分别表示了吸引(-)和排斥(+)

Now, let's put Coulomb's Law to the test!
现在来运用库仑定律吧

Let's say there are two electrons that are 1 nanometer apart.
假设有两个相距1nm的电子

That's 1 times 10 to the -9 meters.
也就是1×10 m

{\fs30\pos(740,636)}-9

You can calculate the force between them by multiplying their charges,
你可以把电荷量带入到公式中

which are both -1.6 times 10 to the -19 Coulombs
两个q都是-1.6×10   C

{\fs30\pos(800,636)}-19

divided by the distance between them squared.
再除以距离的平方

You then multiply that by k,
and the resulting force is positive 2.3 times 10 to the -10 Newtons.
再乘上k 得到库仑力为+2.3×10   N

{\fs30\pos(908,636)}-10

Now, notice that the answer is positive
that means the electrons repel one another.
注意到结果为正 也就是两个电荷相互排斥

If we used a proton and an electron the same distance apart,
如果是一个质子和一个电子的话

we'd get -2.3 times 10 to the -10 Newtons, meaning they'd attract one another.
得到的结果大小相同 但是为负 表示吸引力

And just like other forces, vector addition also applies here, too.
这个力也遵循矢量的加法

This means we can solve for the net force on a charge by using Coulomb's law
on each pair of charges in any situation.
因此无论有多少电荷 都可以用库仑定律求出合力方向

From Coulomb's law, we can calculate the magnitude of the force
and find the direction based on the sign of the result.
库仑定律求出力的大小 根据正负号判断力的方向

So, from a simple trick with tape,
and the help of a couple of animated rods,
we've already uncovered the basics of electrostatic forces!
从胶带的例子

以及玻璃棒和金属棒摩擦的动画

我们已经初步见识了静电力

Next time, we'll learn about electric fields
and how to visualize their effect on neighboring objects.
下次课 我们会讲电场以及如何表示场中的物体

Today, we learned about electrostatic forces,
and how electrical charge can be altered and rearranged.
这节课 我们讲了静电力与电荷分配

We also discussed Coulomb's law
and how the force between charged particles is calculated using vectors.
还讨论了库仑力及矢量计算

