ou have a box a ring and a marble.
有一个盒子 一枚戒指 和一颗龙珠
nd they're all at the top of a ramp.
们都在斜块的顶部
ecause you know how physics loves ramps.
理老师就是喜欢用斜块出题
specially hypothetical ramps!
其是光滑的斜块…
o, let's say this ramp would allow for static friction, but not kinetic friction.
设斜块存在静摩擦 但没有动摩擦
ow, you let go of all of these objects at the same time,
时释放物体
o that the box starts sliding,
是盒子开始滑动
nd the ring and marble start rolling, all at once.
指和龙珠也同时滚动起来了
o, which of them will hit the bottom first?
谁能率先触地呢
he answer might not be what you'd expect.
案可能出乎你的意料
 mean, we already know that when you drop two objects from the same height
的意思是 我们知道在同一个高度释放两个物体
-- in a vacuum at least -- they'll hit the ground at the same time.
们会同时触地 至少在真空中是这样
ven if you tried it with a feather and a bowling ball.
使你拿的是一片羽毛和一颗保龄球
o you might think that all of the objects would get to the bottom of the ramp at the same time.
此 你会以为这三样东西也会同时触地
ut they won't.
情况并非如此
he reason has to do with how energy is distributed in an object when it's rolling.
因与物体在滚动时的能量分布有关
nd in order to understand who wins the ramp-race, and why,
了弄清是谁在斜块竞速赛中获胜 及其原因
e have to investigate some qualities of rotational motion:
们必须研究旋转运动的几个参量
pecifically, torque, and the moment of inertia.
其是 力矩 和 转动惯量
ave you ever tightened a bolt with a wrench?
用扳手紧过螺栓吗
r pulled a door open? Me too!
者把门拉开   我都干过
hen we do those things, the wrench and the door's handle do their jobs using torque.
手和门把手就是利用了 力矩 的原理
hat is, they apply force that makes the bolt turn and door swing open.
们将你施的力用来转动螺栓 把门转开
hat's what torque does -- it makes things rotate faster or slower.
就是力矩的作用 控制转动的速度
n other words, torque changes an object's angular velocity.
行话说 力矩改变了物体的角速度
or the first few weeks of this course,
门课的前几次
e described net forces as changing an object's linear velocity,
们说的合外力改变的是物体的线速度
ow fast it moves through space, and in what direction.
某一方向行进的速度有多快
orque essentially does the same thing, but for rotational motion.
矩的功能也是如此 但是在旋转运动中进行的
his means that a lot of the relationships and equations that apply to forces
意味着描述力矩和力的关系或方程有相似之处
ill apply to torque in a similar way.
ut first, let's talk about how to calculate torque,
首先 我们先来谈谈怎么计算力矩
y analyzing what happens when you open a door.
拿开门来分析吧
he harder you pull on the handle, the more torque you'll generate,
拉门把手的力越大 产生的力矩就越大
nd the more you'll change the door's angular velocity.
改变门的角速度就越大
ore net torque then, means the door starts moving faster on its hinges.
矩就越大 门绕铰链旋转得就越快
o, the strength of the force that's applied is one factor that affects torque.
以施力的大小是影响力矩的一个因素
nother is the distance between the force and the axis of rotation -- or the radius.
一个因素是力与旋转轴（半径）之间的夹角
 larger radius means more torque.
径大 力矩就大
ou know this if you've ever tried opening a door with a handle that's too close to the hinge.
果门的把手在靠近铰链的地方 你知道开这样的门是什么感觉吗
'm guessing you haven't tried that, though, because there's a reason doorknobs
猜你没试过 因为正常的厂家不会这么设计的
re generally placed far from the hinges.
 door with a handle close to the hinges would be much harder to open,
手靠铰链的门是很难开的
ecause you get less torque for the same amount of force.
为在施力相同的情况下 力矩会很小
he last factor that affects torque is the ANGLE BETWEEN the applied force and the radius.
后一个因素是半径和力之间的夹角
f you tried to open the door by pulling the handle, say, parallel to the door --
果你与门的转动方向平行
n the direction opposite from the hinges -- the door wouldn't move.
对着铰链推门  门是纹丝不动的
ecause the only part of the force that affects the door's rotation
为你能影响门的力
s the force that's perpendicular to the radius.
垂直于转动半径的
o put this idea in mathematical terms, torque -- represented by the Greek letter tau --
数学语言讲 力矩 用希腊字母τ表示
s equal to the perpendicular force, times the radius.
于垂直分力×半径
nd, you know how we keep saying that for translational motion,
们一直说平移运动中
 net force on an object is equal to its acceleration times its mass?
体的合力=加速度×质量
ell, something similar applies to rotational motion, too:
在旋转运动中 也有相似的表达
he net torque on an object is equal to its angular acceleration,
力矩=角加速度×转动惯量
imes what's known as its moment of inertia.
ow, we've talked about inertia before, at least as it relates to translational motion.
们之前在平移运动中 谈到过惯性
asically, it's an object's tendency to keep doing what it's been doing.
般来说 惯性使物体保持运动状态
n object with lots of inertia is harder to speed up or slow down.
性大的物体 速度很难被改变
nd in translational motion, the inertia of an object depends on mass.
移运动中的惯性大小 取决于物体的质量
he MOMENT OF INERTIA works in a somewhat similar way for rotational motion …
转动惯量是在旋转运动中的量度
ut the best way to define is mathematically.
好的定义方式是数学表达式
pecifically, the moment of inertia is the sum of all the individual points of mass in an object,
别的 转动惯量是单个点的质量×到转轴距离的平方的总和
imes the square of their distance from the axis of rotation.
别的 转动惯量是单个点的质量×到转轴距离的平方的总和
o, much in the same way that inertia relates to an object's mass in translational motion…
以 平移物体的惯性与质量有关
 the moment of inertia relates to mass, too,
动的物体也与质量有关
ut it depends on how that mass is distributed.
取决于质量的分布
he farther away the mass is from the axis of rotation,
量离旋转轴越远
he higher the object's moment of inertia.
体的转动惯量就越大
t's possible to derive the equation for an object's moment of inertia,
以推导物体的转动惯量公式
y integrating the square of the object's radius over its mass.
过半径的平方对于质量的积分
ut those integrals can get complicated.
这类积分会很复杂
o this is one of those rare cases
以 像之前的竞速赛这样
here, if you're asked to solve problems using moments of inertia
你用转动惯量求解问题
nd you don't have access to the equations,
不必求出公式
t's probably worth memorizing them.
公式还是需要记住的
ow, there's another thing that torques and forces have in common,
和力矩还有一个相同点
nd it's going to be the key to figuring out which object wins the race down the ramp.
是解决竞速赛问题的关键
amely: torques, like forces, have the ability to do work.
矩和力一样 可以做功
s you might remember from our episode on work and energy,
可以记得第9集 讲了功和能量
he work done by a force is just the integral of that force over a certain distance.
做的功就是力对距离的积分
n a similar way, the work done by a torque is the integral of that torque over a certain angle.
理 力矩做的功就是力矩对夹角的积分
eaning: the more torque you apply while rotating an object, the more work you do.
就是 转动物体施加的力矩越大 做的功越多
e also know that work changes the energy of a system.
们也学过 功改变了系统的能量
or example, it can change its kinetic energy, which is the energy of its motion.
如 功可以改变动能 物体由于运动而具有的能
n the case of objects that move without rotating,
于没有旋转的物体运动
ll of that kinetic energy goes into translational motion.
有的动能都用来进行平移运动
n this case, keep in mind that -- as we've gone over before --
这个例子中 你要记住 我们之前讲过
he kinetic energy of translational motion is equal to half of the object's mass, times its velocity squared.
移运动的动能等于质量的二分之一×速度的平方
ut when an object is ROTATING, some of its kinetic energy is also taking the form of Rotational Motion.
一个物体旋转时 部分动能以旋转的形式消耗了
nd calculating the kinetic energy of rotational motion is pretty easy.
算旋转运动的动能是很简单的
ecause, first, the moment of inertia affects rotational motion in the same way
为 第一 转动惯量影响旋转与质量影响平移运动是一样的
hat mass affects translational motion.
nd second, rotating objects have angular velocity,
二 旋转的物体具有角速度
ust as translating objects have linear velocity.
像平移运动物体具有线速度一样
o, the kinetic energy of an object's rotational motion
以 旋转物体的动能
s just half of its moment of inertia, times its angular velocity squared.
是转动惯量的二分之一×角速度的平方
K, there's just one final factor we have to consider,
了 为了解决斜块竞速赛问题
efore we finally get back to the box, the marble, and the ring racing down the ramp:
后一个需要考虑的因素
nd that factor is angular momentum.
是角动量
e've talked about linear momentum
们之前说了 动量是线性动量
nd how it's equal to an object's mass times its velocity.
等于质量×速度
ell, there's also angular momentum,
有角动量
hich is equal to an object's moment of inertia times its angular velocity.
等于转动惯量×角速度
nd, like linear momentum, angular momentum is always conserved.
动量和动量一样 也是守恒的
hat's another one of those super-fundamental principles of physics:
也是物理的一个基本原则
ou can't create or destroy angular momentum. It always has to go somewhere.
动量不能凭空产生.也不能凭空消失 只是转化为其他形式
o, now, let's get back to The Great Crash Course Physics Ramp Race.
么 开始我们的速成课大型斜块竞速赛吧
ll three objects -- the box, the marble, and the ring --
个物体—正方体 球体和圆环
re covering the same distance.
过的距离相同
nd what we want to know is, how fast do they cover that distance?
们关心的是 他们的速度如何
he answer has to do with what happens to each object's energy as it moves down the ramp.
案与物体下落时的能量分布有关
hen they're at the top of the ramp, all the energy of each object
顶部时 每个物体的能量
akes the form of gravitational potential energy,
现为重力势能
hich is equal to the object's mass, times small g, times the height of the ramp.
等于质量×重力加速度×斜块高度
s they move down the ramp, all of that potential energy
着物体的下落
radually gets converted into kinetic energy.
能逐步转化为动能
n the case of the box, all of its potential energy will be
察盒体 所有的势能
onverted to translational kinetic energy,
将转化为直线运动的动能
ecause that's the only kind of motion it has.
为这是它唯一的运动形式
o the object that gets to the bottom of the ramp first is … the box!
以率先触地的就是 这个方体的盒子
ecause, for both the marble and the ring,
为 对于球体和圆环来说
ome of their potential energy gets converted into rotational kinetic energy.
分的势能转换为旋转的能量
nd energy that goes into their rotation isn't being used
用来旋转的能量
o make them move faster down the ramp.
提高下落的速度
o really, anything that slides
以 其实任何滑下来的物体
t least on our hypothetical ramp with no kinetic friction
我们这个无静摩擦的理想斜块上
ill reach the bottom before anything that rolls.
要比滚下来的物体快
nd the masses of the objects don't even matter,
且与物体的质量无关
ecause the energy of an object with
为能量会等比例地变化
ore or less mass will increase or decrease accordingly.
o, the box wins.
以冠军是盒子
ut what's the runner-up?
么紧跟其后的是谁呢
oes the ring reach the bottom next, or does the marble?
圆环呢  还是球体
hat question is a little more complicated,
个问题还比较复杂
ut it turns out that the marble reaches the bottom before the ring,
实验证明 球体是先于圆环的
ecause it has a lower moment of inertia.
为它（球体）的转动惯量比较小
he marble is a solid sphere, so its mass is distributed closer to its center.
珠是实心的 所以它的质量聚集在球心
ut the ring's mass is distributed in a, well, ring --
戒指的质量是分布在周围的
o its mass is distributed far from its center,
以它的质量分布远离中心
iving it a higher moment of inertia.
得它的转动惯量更大
hat does that mean for the marble's speed versus the ring's?
能说明两者的速度关系如何吗
ell, since the marble has a smaller moment of inertia,
为龙珠的转动惯量较小
ts velocity can take up a larger proportion of its kinetic energy
以动能较大 
hich means it moves faster down the ramp.
以速度也就更大
o, the final results of the race?
以垫底的是谁呢
he box wins, the marble comes in second, and the ring finishes last.
军是盒子 然后是龙珠 最后是戒指
oday, you learned about torque,
节课 我们学了力矩
nd how it relates to an object's angular acceleration
nd its moment of inertia.
及它与角加速度及转动惯量的关系
e also talked about how to calculate moments of inertia,
ngular momentum, and the fact that torques can do work.
们还学了转动惯量 角动量 以及力矩做功的计算方法
inally, we figured out what would happen if you let a box, marble, and ring move down a ramp.
重要的是 我们知道了谁会先从斜块上滑落
