This episode of Crash Course Physics is sponsored by Audible.
本集物理速成课由Audible赞助

I think fluids are fascinating and awesome.
我觉得流体很迷人  很棒

Because they happen to be my area of expertise as an engineer, in fluid dynamics.
因为流体恰好是我作为流体动力学工程师的专业领域

But it’s not just me who’s intrigued by how things flow.
被流体流动所吸引的不只是我

Legend has it that a man once ran naked through the streets
传说曾经有一个男人赤身裸体穿过街道

because he was so excited about discovering an important property of fluids.
他因发现流体的重要性质而非常兴奋

Now, I’ve never quite gone that far
现在  我没那么出格

But still, an understanding of fluids is incredibly useful.
但是  对流体的认识仍然非常有用

Because anything that flows liquid or gas is a fluid.
因为任何流动的液体或气体都是流体

So, water counts, but so does air, and so does corn syrup.
因此 水 空气 玉米糖浆都是流体

Using their knowledge of fluids, physicists and engineers can design things
利用流体知识  物理学家和工程师可以设计很多东西

like pressure sensors, hydraulic pumps, and even airplanes.
像压力传感器 液压泵 甚至飞机

But first, let’s start with the basics: the physics of fluids, at rest.
但首先  让我们从基础知识开始：流体物理学  静力学

Until now, we’ve often described the physics of objects based on their mass.
到目前为止  我们经常用质量来描述物理物体

But when it comes to fluids, we mostly use a different quality
但是当涉及到流体时  我们大多使用另一不同的单位

density, represented in equations by the greek letter rho.
密度  由希腊字母ρ表示

You’re probably familiar with density:
你可能很熟悉密度

it’s mass, divided by volume, and measured in kilograms per meters cubed.
它是质量除以体积  以(千克/平方米)为单位

If an object  or a fluid  is made of heavier atoms or molecules,
如果物体或流体 是由较重的原子或分子组成

or those particles are packed more closely together
或者这些颗粒紧密地堆积在一起

then it’s going to have a higher density.
就会有教高的密度

And there’s another important quality of fluids
流体还有另一种重要的性质

one that scuba divers and mountain climbers think about a lot: pressure.
一种潜水员和登山者很关心的性质  压力

In our last episode, we defined pressure as applied force, divided by area.
在我们上一集中  我们将压力定义为  所施加的力除以面积

It’s measured in units of Newtons per meters squared, known as Pascals.
它以（牛/平方米）为单位  称为帕斯卡

And fluids apply pressure in every direction
并且流体在（所接触物体）各个方向都施加压力

So, right now, there’s air putting pressure on you and me from every side.
所以现在  空气从各个方向向你我施加压力

In fact, the average air pressure at sea level is 101 thousand 325 Pascals.
事实上  海平面上平均气压为101.325KPa

And if you jumped in a pool, the water would also exert pressure on you.
如果你跳进游泳池 水也会对你施加压力

But if you’ve ever tried diving to the bottom of a pool,
但是 如果你曾尝试潜到游泳池底

you'll know that there’s more pressure at the bottom than at the surface
你会知道底部的压力比表面大

which is why, at the bottom, your ears hurt
 这就是为什么 在池底你的耳朵会受伤

and your head feels like it’s about to implode.
并且你的头好像要被压爆一样

That’s because the deeper you go
那是因为你下潜越深

the more fluid there is above you, with its weight pressing down.
在你之上的液体越多 重量压下

There’s an easy way to calculate the pressure of a fluid at a given depth:
有一种简单的方法来计算给定深度的流体压力

it’s just ρ*g the fluid’s density times small g
即流体的密度ρ乘以g

(times the distance to the surface), represented by the letter h for height.
乘以该点到液体表面的距离  即字母h表示深度

And the change in pressure based on depth is equal to
并且因深度变化而生的压力变化等于

(the fluid’s density), (times small g),
流体的密度ρ乘以g

times the change in distance to the surface
乘以该点到表面的距离（即深度）的变化量

So, let’s say you’re swimming in a pool that’s three meters deep, and you want to know
假设你在一个三米深的游泳池里游泳  你想知道

how much more pressure you’ll experience at the bottom of the pool
你在游泳池底部会体验到多大压力

versus how deep you are now, which is, let’s assume a quarter of a meter.
比起现在的深度  假设深度为0.25米

The density of water is 1000 kilograms per meters cubed
水的密度是每立方米1000千克

and the change in distance to the surface is 2.75 meters
深度变化为2.75米

Which means that the pressure at the bottom of the pool
这意味着池底压力

is 27,000 Pascals more than the pressure, a quarter of a meter down.
比起深度为0.25米处的地方压力高27,000帕斯卡

The water in the pool could be one example of a confined fluid
池中的水是密闭流体的一个例子

because if you had a piston the size of the pool’s surface
因为如果你有一个池表面大小的活塞

and used it to push down on the water, the water would have nowhere to go.
并用它来推压水  水无处可去

And back in the mid-1600s, French physicist Blaise Pascal
早在17世纪中叶  法国物理学家布莱斯.帕斯卡

realized something about the way pressure worked in confined fluids:
认识到压力在受限流体中的作用方式

If you apply pressure to a confined fluid,
如果对受限流体施加压力

the pressure in every part of the fluid increases by that amount.
流体各部分的压力增加了所施加大小的压力

If you have water in a cup,
如果你有一杯水

and you use a piston to apply 10,000 Pascals of pressure to the surface of the water
并且你使用活塞向水面施加10,000帕斯卡的压力

then the pressure everywhere in the water increases by 10,000 Pascals.
这时水中各处的压力都增加了10,000帕斯卡

Today, that concept is known as Pascal’s Principle
今天  这个概念被称为帕斯卡原理

and it’s the reason hydraulics are so useful.
这就是为什么液压系统如此有用

Say you have some water in a tube, with pistons on either side.
假设管中有一些水  两侧都有活塞

Pascal’s principle tells you that
帕斯卡原理告诉你

if you use the piston on the left side to apply pressure to the water
如果你使用左侧的活塞给水施加压力

the water will exert the same pressure on the piston on the right side of the tube.
水将对管子右侧的活塞施加相同的压力

And pressure is equal to force divided by area
压力等于力除以面积

So, say you have another tube that’s more of a cone shape,
所以  假设你有另一个更像锥形的管子

with a piston on the left side that has an area of one meter squared
在左侧有一个活塞  面积为一平方米

and one on the right that has an area of 2 meters squared
右边一个面积为2平方米

Again, you apply 10,000 Pascals of pressure to the piston on the left side
再次  你向左侧的活塞施加10,000帕斯卡的压力

meaning, 10,000 Newtons of force.
意味着  10,000牛顿的力（10,000帕斯卡乘以1平方米）

But the piston on the right side has double the area.
但右侧的活塞面积是左边的两倍

So, for the pressures to be equal
所以  压力是相等的

the water has to apply double the force to the piston as you applied to the water
当你对水施力时  水必须对右边的活塞施加两倍的力

and so you end up with 20,000 Newtons of force on the right-side piston
所以你最终在右侧活塞上得到了20,000牛顿的力

This is a huge deal
这很了不得

You’re doubling the input force, but you didn’t have to put in any extra effort
把你施加的力增加一倍  但你不需要付出额外的努力

And the bigger the difference in area, the more extra force you get!
面积差异越大  你额外获得的力就越大（省力不省功）

To put it in math terms: the ratio of the output force to the input force is equal to
用数学术语来表示  输出力与输入力的比值等于

the ratio of the output area to the input area.
输出区域与输入区域面积的比值

Systems like hydraulic lifts take advantage of this
液压升降机等系统充分利用这一点

by having big differences in area on either side of a fluid.
通过流体两侧面积的巨大差异

So if you want to apply a lot of force to lift something heavy, for example
例如  如果你想用大力举重物

hydraulics are the way to go.
液压是种可行的方法

Now, if you’re going to be using pressure to do stuff
现在  如果你要用压力来做些事

you’re probably going to want to be able to measure that pressure.
你可能希望能够衡量这种压力的大小

Which is where manometers and barometers come in.
这是压力表和气压计发挥作用的地方

A manometer is just a U-shaped tube with a fluid inside.
压力表只是一个内部有流体的U形管

Say you wanted to use one to measure the pressure of a bike tire.
假设你想用它来测量自行车轮胎的压力

You’d stick one side of the tube in the tire
你将管子的一侧连在轮胎上

and leaving the other side open to the atmosphere.
并让另一边暴露在大气中

If there’s a difference in the pressure on each side of the manometer
如果压力计两侧的压力不同

whichever side has the higher pressure will push the fluid away from it
无论哪一侧压力较高  都会将液体推向另一方

creating a difference in the height of the fluid on either side of the U.
在U的两侧产生液面高度的差异

In this case,
在这种情况下

the inside of the bike tire has a much higher pressure than the atmosphere
自行车轮胎内部的压力比大气压高得多

so the level of the fluid on the side of the U that’s closer to the tire will be lower.
所以靠近轮胎的U侧的液体液面会降低

If you measured the difference in fluid height directly,
如果直接测量液体高度的差异

you’d get what’s known as gauge pressure
你会得到所谓的表压力（计示压力）

the difference between atmospheric pressure and the pressure inside the tire.
即大气压力与轮胎内部压力之间的差

But the actual pressure of the tire the absolute pressure
但轮胎的实际压力即绝对压力

is the atmospheric pressure, plus the gauge pressure.
等于大气压力加上表压力

So, the pressure inside the tire will be equal to
所以  轮胎内部的压力将等于

 (the atmospheric pressure),
（大气压力）

plus (the density of the fluid inside the manometer)
加（压力计内的流体密度）

 (times small g) (times the difference in the heights of the fluid).
（乘以小g）（乘以流体高度差的差值）

Barometers, on the other hand, use a long, vertical tube that’s closed on one end,
另一方面  气压计使用一端封闭的长垂直管

usually filled with mercury
其中通常充满水银

and then stuck upside-down in a bowl that’s also full of mercury
然后倒扣在一个装满水银的槽中

with the closed end of the tube at the top.
直管顶部封闭

The pressure of the atmosphere pushes down on the mercury in the bowl
大气压力压在槽中的水银上

which keeps a certain amount of mercury in the tube.
这样在管中汞柱会保持一定高度

At standard atmospheric pressure,
在标准大气压下

the mercury in the tube will be exactly 76 centimeters high.
管中的汞柱正好达76厘米

If the air pressure goes up, so does the level of the mercury, and vice versa.
如果气压上升  汞柱液面也会上升  反之亦然

So we have one more property to talk about when it comes to fluids at rest
因此当涉及到静止流体时  还有一个属性可以谈论

and it's the one that supposedly made that guy run naked through the streets
就是使那个家伙赤身裸体穿过街道

yelling “Eureka!”
大喊“尤里卡”的属性

That guy was Archimedes, and he lived in Greece in the third century BCE.
这个人就是阿基米德  他生活在公元前三世纪希腊

Legend has it that he was asked to find a way to
传说  他被要求找到一种方法

figure out if the king’s crown was pure gold
弄清楚国王的王冠是否是纯金

And the best way to do that was to calculate its density
最好的方法是计算其密度

Archimedes could measure the crown’s mass easily enough
阿基米德可以很容易地测量王冠的质量

but he didn’t know how to find its density.
但他不知道如何找到它的密度

He was taking a bath one day when he realized that
有一天在洗澡时  他意识到

the volume of the water displaced by an object is equal to that object’s volume.
被物体排开的水量等于物体的体积

And since he already knew the crown’s mass
因为他已经知道了皇冠的质量

that meant he’d be able to find its volume
这意味着他能够找到王冠的体积就可以了

and therefore its density, just by putting it in water.
因此想知密度  只需将其放入水中即可

That’s when he did the whole running-through-the-streets-naked thing.
在这时  他完成了街头裸奔的事

So Archimedes discovered that when you put something in a fluid,
所以阿基米德发现当把东西放到水中时

the fluid’s volume increases by the amount of the object's volume.
水的体积增大量等于物体的体积

This tells us a lot about what makes objects float or sink.
这告诉我们关于物体悬浮或下沉的原因

For example, say you have a tub of water
例如  假设你有一盆水

and two balls of the same size, but of different densities.
和两个大小相同但密度不同的球

Say, one is an American-style billiard ball, and the other’s a racquetball.
比如  一个是美式台球另一个是壁球

We’re going to gently place the balls in the middle of the tub, let go
我们要轻轻地将球放在浴缸中间  放开球

and explain what happens to them.
并解释它们会发生什么

But first, let’s talk about the forces acting on the water
但首先  我们来谈谈作用在

that’s occupying the space where we’re going to put them.
将放置球的空间的水上的力

Picture a sphere of water within the volume of water that’s in the tub.
设想一个在浴缸里有体积的水球

What are the forces acting on that watery sphere?
作用在那个水球上的力是什么

Well, the force of gravity is pulling it down.
嗯  重力将它往下拉

And, since the sphere is in static equilibrium
由于球体处于静态平衡状态

there must be some force pushing up on it
必须有一些力向上推它

counteracting the force of gravity.
来抵消重力

We call that force the buoyant force,
我们称这种力为浮力

and it comes from the fact that the water pressure
浮力来自这个事实

at the bottom of the sphere is greater than the pressure at the top.
球体底部的水压大于顶部的水压

Now, let’s put the billiard ball where the sphere of water used to be.
现在 将台球放在水球所在的位置

What are the forces acting on that?
施加在球上的力都有哪些

The force from gravity that’s pulling down on the billiard ball
重力正在往下拉台球

is stronger than the force that was pulling down on the sphere of water.
比之前向下推水球的力还大

That’s because the billiard ball is denser than water
那是因为台球的密度大于水

so even though the ball and the sphere of water have the same size
即使台球和水球的体积相同

the ball is much heavier.
但台球比较重

But the buoyant force on the billiard ball
作用在台球上的浮力

is exactly the same as it was on the sphere of water
与之前作用在水球的完全相同

since they’re the same shape and size.
因为二者的形状和大小相同

That’s Archimedes’ principle
即阿基米德的原理

there’s a buoyant force pushing upward on objects in water
在水中  有一种浮力推动物体向上

and it’s equal to the weight of the water that the object displaced.
并且浮力等于物体所排开的水的重力

The billiard ball weighs more than the sphere of water that it’s replacing
台球的重力超过它所取代的水球

so there’s a net downward force on the ball, and it sinks to the bottom of the tub.
所以台球上有一个向下的净力  所以下沉到缸底

But if you were to fill in that sphere of water with a racquetball,
但如果你用壁球替代那个水球

the opposite would happen.
就会发生相反的情况

In that case, the force from gravity pulling it downward
在这种情况下  将其向下拉的重力

is weaker than the force pulling down the sphere of water
比起向下拉水球的重力小

but the buoyant force pushing upward is still the same.
但向上推动的浮力仍然是相同的

So there’s a net force upward on the racquetball,
所以  在壁球上有一个净力

which is why it floats to the top of the tub
这就是为什么壁球漂浮在浴缸的上部

Some of the racquetball will pop out of the water
壁球会从水中浮出

but some of it will stay underwater
但台球会留在水下

in fact, once it stops moving,
事实上  一旦它停止移动

the racquetball will displace a volume of water that weighs exactly as much as the ball.
壁球将取代一定量的水  其重力与球的重力相同

Because at that point, the buoyant force pushing the racquetball upward
因为在这一点上  推动壁球向上的浮力

and the force of gravity pulling the racquetball downward have the same magnitude,
和将壁球向下拉的重力具有相同的大小

so they cancel each other out!
所以它们相互抵消了

Thanks to Archimedes, we know why objects float and sink.
感谢阿基米德  我们知道为什么物体漂浮和下沉

Today, you learned about the properties of fluids at rest, including density, and pressure.
今天  你了解静止流体的一些性质  包括密度和压力

We also talked about Pascal’s Principle, and how it’s used in hydraulics.
我们还谈到了帕斯卡原理  以及它如何应用于液压系统

Then, we covered how manometers and barometers measure pressure.
然后  我们讨论了压力表和气压计如何测量压力

Finally, we explained Archimedes’ Principle and the buoyant force.
最后  我们解释了阿基米德原理和浮力

