You know what can be kind of peculiar and surprising

你知道什么是特别和令人惊讶的吗
The fact that, whenever you want to shoot outside,

事实上  无论何时你想在外面拍摄
 everyone decides to mow their lawn.

都有人决定在此时修剪草坪
You know what else can be kind of peculiar and surprising?

你知道还有什么是特别和令人惊讶的东西吗
Water.

水
And in the right circumstances

在恰当的条件下
I could even take water that’s flowing down and spurt it straight up

我甚至可以使向下流的水直接喷出来
How?

怎么样
All of these things are possible

所有这些都是可能的
thanks to the study of the flow of fluids, known as Fluid Dynamics.

得益于对流体流动的研究  也被称为流体动力学
By now, you’ve picked up on the fact that

到现在为止  你已经了解这个事实
even though we live in the physical universe

即使我们生活在物质世界中
describing the rules of the universe sometimes requires us to pretend

描述宇宙规则  有时需要我们假设
that certain things aren’t happening.

某些事情没有发生
Like the time we rolled a bunch of stuff down a ramp

就像我们在斜坡上向下滚动东西时
and pretended that there was no  kinetic friction.

假设没有动摩擦一样
The same is true when we talk about fluids.

当我们谈论流体时  也是如此
Because, fluids in motion are dynamic

因为  运动中的流体是动态的
and there are many, many things going on in and around them all at once.

瞬间流体内外发了很多很多变化
So, in order to grasp the essentials of fluid dynamics

所以  为了掌握流体动力学的要领
let’s just do some pretending, shall we?

让我们做一些假设  好吗
For one thing, we’re going to consider the fluids in our examples to be incompressible

首先  我们要考虑示例中的流体是不可压缩的
meaning that their densities won’t change.

意即密度不会改变
We’re also going to assume that fluids flow perfectly smoothly, and have no viscosity.

我们还假设流体流动顺畅  没有粘性
You’ve probably heard of viscosity before:

你之前可能听说过粘性
When a fluid flows easily, like water, we say that it has a low viscosity.

当流体像水一样容易流动时  我们说它的粘性很低
Fluids that don’t flow as easily, like honey, have a higher viscosity.

像蜂蜜一样不易流动的流体具有更高的粘性
And much like kinetic friction does in moving objects

就像物体移动中的动摩擦力一样
viscosity tends to complicate things in moving fluids

粘性往往使流动的流体变得复杂
which is why we’re generally going to pretend

这就是为什么  我们通常会假设
that the fluids we’re studying don’t have any.

我们研究的流体没有粘性
Now, say you have some water

现在  有一些水
which exists under all of these hypothetical conditions

满足以上所有假设条件
in a pipe, moving along smoothly.

在管道中  平稳流动
This pipe narrows about halfway through, so that one end is narrower than the other.

这根管子在半程处变窄  因此一端比另一端窄
This shape is going to affect some of the properties of the water’s flow,

这种形状会影响水流的某些特性
as it passes through the narrower side of the pipe compared to the wider side.

当水流穿过比宽处细的管段时
But one thing that won't change is the mass of water

但有一点不会改变的是水的质量
that’s moving through any given area in the pipe over time.

随着时间的推移  在管道的任何给定区域内移动的水的质量
This is called the mass flow rate

这称为质量流量
and it’s always going to be the same everywhere in the pipe

它在管道各处都是一样的
That’s just because, as the water flows through the pipe,

那是因为  当水流过管道时
it pushes along the water in the rest of the pipe, too.

会推动着管道其他部分的水流动
So if one part of the pipe has, say,

因此例如  如果部分管道
a kilogram of water moving through it every second

每秒钟有一千克的水流过
the rest of the pipe

管道的其余部分
also has to have a kilogram of water moving through it every second

每秒钟必须也有一千克的水流过
This fact, that the mass flow rate at one point in the pipe

这个事实  即管道中某一点的质量流量
will be equal to the mass flow rate at any other point

等于任何其他点的质量流量
is called the equation of continuity.

被称为连续性方程
And it can tell you a lot about

它可以告诉你很多
the relationship between the velocity of a fluid

流体速度
and the cross-sectional area of the pipe that it’s flowing through.

与流过管道横截面积之间的关系
Let’s say you’re an engineer for the Water Department of Hypothetical City,

假设你是城市水务部的工程师
and you need to understand the mass flow rate of hypothetical water

你需要了解水的质量流量
that’s going through a certain point in your underground pipe system.

在你的假想地下管道系统中的某个点
But you don’t know the mass

但是你不知道在特定时刻通过那部分管道的水的质量
that’s going through that part of the pipe at any given moment.

但是你不知道在特定时刻通过那部分管道的水的质量
All you do know are the water’s velocity

你所知道的只有水的速度
and the area of the cross-section of that certain section of pipe.

和某段管道的横截面积
In order to describe the mass flow rate,

为了描述质量流量
you’ll have to use what we know about density, area

你必须使用我们所知的密度 面积
and velocity to work some algebra magic

以及速度  来做一些代数魔法
First, let’s have a look at a cross section of that point of the pipe.

首先  让我们看一下该点所在管道的横截面
From our last lesson, you know that

从我们上一集开始  你已知道
the mass of the fluid moving past this cross-sectional area, over time,

随着时间的推移  流过该横截面的流体质量
is equal to its density, times its volume.

等于其密度  乘以其体积
And, the volume of the fluid moving past this point  is simply

而且  流过该点流体的体积很简单
the area of the pipe at this cross section, times the distance the fluid moves.

即在该管道横截面面积乘以流体移动的距离
And! From our episodes on the physics of motion, you also know that

而且  从我们运动物理学那集中  你还知道
the distance the fluid moves,divided by the change in time

流体移动的距离  除以时间的变化
is equal to the fluid’s velocity.

等于流体速度
So, by putting all that together

所以  将所有这些放在一起
you can get a different version of the equation of continuity

你可以得到不同版本的连续性方程式
At any given point in the pipe, the density of the fluid flowing through it

在管道中的任何给定点处  流过该点流体的密度
times the area of the pipe, times the fluid’s velocity

乘以管道面积  乘以流体的速度
will be the same as for any other point in the pipe.

将与管道中的任何其他点相同
And since you’re dealing with an incompressible fluid,

既然你正在研究一种不可压缩的液体
the density is going to be the same for every point in the pipe anyway.

无论如何  管道各点密度都是相同的
So really, you’ve just figured out that at any point in the pipe

所以你刚刚发现   在管道任何一点
the area of the pipe times the fluid’s velocity will be the same as for any other point.

面积乘以流体的速度的值  将与其他任何点相同
It’s the same thing we said before:

这跟我们之前说的一样
The mass flow rate is the same for every point in the pipe.

管道中各点的质量流量都相同
But instead of putting that relationship in terms of mass and time,

但不是把这种关系建立在质量和时间上
you’re putting it in terms of area and velocity.

而是建立在面积和速度方面
And, in your role as a water-department engineer, this is important for you to know!

而且  作为水务部门的工程师  这对你来说很重要
Because it means that, where the pipe is narrower

因为这意味着  管道更窄
the fluid will have to flow faster, in order to compensate.

为了补偿  流体必须更快地流动
But here’s a weird thing:

但还有一个奇怪的事情
A fluid that’s flowing really fast actually

事实上流速快流体的压力
has less pressure than when it’s flowing more slowly.

比流速慢流体的压力小
Sure, it might feel like it’s exerting more force

当然  速度快可能会令人以为它会施加更大的力
than when it flows through a wider opening.

比起面积更大（速度更小）的点
But that’s not what physicists mean when they talk about the pressure in a pipe.

但这并不是物理学家谈论管道压力的方式
They’re really talking about the pressure on the walls of the pipe.

他们认真地研究管道壁上的压力
This means that, the slower the fluid flows

这意味着流体流动越慢
the more pressure it puts on the pipe itself.

它对管道造成的压力越大
This is known as Bernoulli’s principle.

这被称为伯努利原理
It states that the higher a fluid’s velocity is through a pipe

它表明通过管道的流体速度越大
the lower the pressure on the pipe’s walls, and vice versa.

管壁上的压力越低  反之亦然
Bernoulli also came up with what we now know as Bernoulli’s equation

伯努利也提出我们现在所知的伯努利方程式
It might look kind of intimidating at first.

起初它可能看起来有些令人生畏
But when you break it down,

但是当你把它分解时
it’s actually just a way of combining a bunch of things that you’ve already learned.

它实际上只是一种将你已经学到的东西整合到一起的方法
Bernoulli based his equation on the concept of conservation of energy:

伯努利基于能量守恒概念的方程式
as a fluid flows through a pipe, it won’t gain or lose any energy.

当流体流过管道时  能量不会获得或失去
This means that, no matter where the fluid is in the pipe,

这意味着  无论管道中流体在何处
if you take all of the forms of energy

如果你将液体在某点某刻所具有的全部形式的能量加合在一起
that the fluid has at that point and add them up

they’ll equal the same number as any other point in the pipe.
其数值大小与管道中点的数值大小相同

To better understand this,have a look at
为了更好地理解这一点  请看

how the three forms of energy in a fluid are represented in Bernoulli’s equation:
伯努利方程中表示流体中的三种能量的形式

First, there’s pressure times volume.
首先  压力乘以体积

In our episode on work and energy, we defined energy as the ability to do work.
在我们关于工作和能量的一集中  我们将能量定义为做功的能力

And when a fluid applies pressure and moves the volume of fluid that’s downstream,
当流体施加压力并移动下游的流体时

it’s doing work.
它正在做功

So, pressure times volume must be a form of energy.
因此  压力乘以体积须是一种能量形式

The first term in Bernoulli’s equation takes that energy, and divides it by volume.
伯努利方程中的第一项采用了这种能量形式  并将其除以体积

Which just leaves pressure.
这只会留下压力

Next, a flowing fluid also has kinetic energy.
接下来  流动流体也具有动能

When we first talked about kinetic energy,
当我们第一次谈到动能时

we said that it’s equal to half of an object’s mass, times its velocity squared.
我们说它等于  物体质量的一半乘以速度平方

Again, Bernoulli divided this form of energy by volume
伯努利再次把这种形式的能量除以体积

to get half the fluid’s density, times its velocity squared.
获得二分之一乘以流体密度乘以其速度的平方  这一项

That’s called the kinetic energy density,
这被称为密度动能

and it’s the second term of Bernoulli’s equation.
这是伯努利方程的第二项

Finally, a flowing fluid also has the potential energy that comes from gravity.
最后  运动流体也有来自重力的势能

And we’ve said before that the potential energy from gravity is equal to
我们之前已经说过  来自重力的势能等于

an object’s mass, times small g, times its height.
物体质量  乘以小g  乘以高度

When Bernoulli divided that by volume, he got density times small g times height
当伯努利将之除以体积时  他得到密度乘以小g乘以高度

the potential energy density, and the third term of his equation.
这就是密度势能  他方程中的第三项

Why divide all these terms by volume?
为什么要这三项除以体积呢

Well, when it comes to fluids
因为  当谈到流体

it’s just easier to talk about things in terms of density than it is to talk about mass.
从密度的角度谈论比质量角度更容易

So when you look at his equation piece by piece
所以  当你分块地看他的方程时

you can see that Bernoulli was really
你可以看到伯努利方程

just putting conservation of energy into a special form that would be useful for fluids.
只是能量守恒的一种特殊形式而已  这个形式对流体十分有用

Now, let’s look at a special case of Bernoulli’s equation,
known as Torricelli’s theorem.

现在  我们来看一个伯努利方程的特例  称为托里切利定理
Torricelli’s theorem uses conservation of energy

托里切利定理使用能量守恒
to find the velocity of fluid flowing from a small spout in a container.

得到容器的小口喷出的流体的速度
And it says that the velocity of the fluid coming out of the spout

它说从喷口流出流体的速度
is the same as the velocity of a single droplet of fluid

与单个液滴
that falls from the height of the surface of the fluid in the container.

从容器液面高度落下而得到的速度相同
In other words, the pressure that’s pushing the fluid out of the spout

换句话说  将流体推出喷口的压力
gives it the same velocity that it would get from the force of gravity.

赋予它与在重力作用下相同的速度
To see this theorem in action,

要看这个定理在起作用
let’s say you’re not a water department engineer  you’re just you

不需假设你是水务部门工程师  你就是你
and you’re watering your garden with the water you’ve saved up in your rain barrel.

你用雨水桶中储存的水给花园浇水
Your barrel doesn’t have a top,

你的桶没有盖
and you’re watering your carrots and lettuce and stuff

而你正在给胡萝卜生菜和其他植物浇水
from a hole  or a spout  in the side.

水从一侧的洞或喷口流出
Now: You want to know: What’s the velocity of the water coming out of the spout?

现在你想知道  从喷口流出的水流速是多少
From Bernoulli’s equation,

 we know that the sum of the pressure, kinetic energy density,
根据伯努利方程  我们知道密度压能  密度动能

and the potential energy density of the water at the top of the barrel
以及桶顶密度势能之和

will equal the sum of those three qualities of the water coming out of the spout.
等于从喷口流出流体的三种能量的之和

But we can simplify that relationship a bit, to find the velocity of the fluid coming out.
但是我们可以稍微简化这种关系  找出流体流出速度

First, the upper surface of the water in the barrel
首先  桶中水上表面

and the water that’s coming out of the spout, are both exposed to the atmosphere.
以及从喷口流出的水都暴露在大气中

So the pressure at those points will be the same it’s just the atmospheric pressure.
因此  这些点的压力将与大气压力相同

So we can cross off the pressure from each side of the equation.
因此  我们可以从方程式的两侧都消去密度压能项

Now, there might be water coming out of the spout,
现在  可能有水从喷口流出

but the top of the barrel has a much bigger area.
但是桶顶部面积很大

So the water at the top of the barrel isn’t going to be moving very much.
因此  桶顶部的水不怎么流动

In fact, we can say that its velocity is basically zero.
事实上  我们可以说其速度基本上为零

Which means that
这意味着

for the water at the top of the barrel is zero.
桶顶部水的密度动能是零

Finally, we can cross out the density in each term of the equation,
最后  我们可以在方程的每一项中都划掉密度

since it’s not changing.
因为它一直没有变

We’re left with a much simpler equation, with only three terms
我们留下了一个更简单的等式  只有三项

an equation that should look very familiar,
一个应该看起来很熟悉的方程

if you’ve watched our episodes on the physics of motion.
如果你看过我们关于运动物理学的那集

It’s a kinematic equation!
这是一个运动方程式

You already know the two main kinematic equations:
你已经知道两个主要的运动方程

the definition of acceleration and the displacement curve.
加速度的定义和位移曲线

And you can rearrange them to get another equation
你可以重新排列它们以获得另一个方程

that relates displacement, velocity, and acceleration without considering time.
与移动速度和加速度有关  而不考虑时间

It’s exactly the same equation as the one we just found
与我们刚发现的方程完全相同

by using Bernoulli’s equation
通过使用伯努利方程

to describe the velocity of the water coming out of the spout.
来描述从喷口流出的水的速度

So, Torricelli’s theorem tells you
所以  托里切利的定理告诉你

that if a droplet of water fell from the same height as the top of the barrel,
如果一滴水从与桶顶部液面相同的高度落下

when it reached the level of the spout
当它达到喷口的高度时

it’d have the same velocity as the water coming out of the spout.
其速度与从喷口流出水的速度相同

Now you know how fast the water’s coming out your rain barrel
现在你知道水从桶中流出的速度有多大

and how much water you’re putting in your garden over a certain amount of time.
在一段时间内  你在花园里放了多少水

But you want to try something fun?
但你想尝试一些有趣的事情吗

Let’s turn the spout on your barrel so it’s pointing up instead of down.
让我们转动水管的喷口  使其向上而不是向下

If the water from this spout could shoot straight up,
如果这个喷口的水可以直射

the stream would get exactly as high as the water at the top of the barrel,
水柱将会与水桶液面同高

before falling down to the ground.
在落到地面之前

Today, you learned about fluids in motion,
今天  你了解了运动中的流体

with a focus on the continuity equation,Bernoulli’s equation, and Torricelli’s theorem.
重点关注连续性方程  伯努利方程和托里切利定理

You also learned that lawn mowers are loud.
你还了解到割草机噪声很大


