Wherever you are right now,
there's probably an electrical outlet within easy reach. 
无论你身在何处 手边都能摸到一个插座

Whether you want to vacuum the living room or recharge your phone,
无论你是想给吸尘器还是手机充电

all you have to do is plug into the wall,
and bam instant access to electricity. 
你只需要把插头插进墙里 就能立马充上电

But have you ever wondered how all of that electrical power
gets to your house, school, or office in the first place? 
但你有没有想过 电是怎么到达到你的处所的

There are a lot of steps, but two of the most important ones
involve electric generators and transformers.
这其中涉及到许多步骤 但最重要的是发电机和变压器

And both of these devices work
because of a concept we introduced last time: induction. 
这两种设备的运行原理都是我们上次课讲过的电磁感应

Electric generators are like the opposite of electric motors. 
发电机相当于电动机的反义词

Motors take electrical energy
电动机消耗电能 

so, the current running through a coil of wire
and convert it into mechanical energy as the motor turns. 
当电流通过线圈时 电动机转动将电能转换为机械能

Generators, on the other hand, take mechanical energy
而发电机消耗机械能

the rotation of a coil of wire
也就是线圈的一圈一圈转动

and use induction to convert it into electrical energy,
in the form of a current running through a wire.
因电磁感应的原理 将能量以电流的形式从导线输出

Generators use a wire wound around something called an armature
basically, a cylinder that rotates within a uniform magnetic field. 
发电机使用衔铁电圈 类似于一个在磁场中旋转的圆柱体

As the loop rotates,
the changing magnetic flux induces a current in the loops of the coil. 
随着线圈旋转 磁通量发生变化 线圈的环路中感应出电流

But the angle that the coil makes
with respect to the magnetic field keeps changing,
但是线圈与磁场的夹角不断变化

which causes the direction of the induced current
to reverse itself at every half-turn. 
使得感应电流的方向在每半圈反转一次

So the magnetic field in the generator stays constant. 
因为发电机中的磁场是恒定磁场

But because the coil is rotating,
the angle between the coil and the magnetic field changes. 
但线圈的旋转使其与磁场的夹角发生变化

This means that the magnetic flux
through the loops in the coil changes over time,
which is what induces an emf.
线圈环路的磁通量随时间变化 这就是诱发了电动势

And as we'll soon see,
the emf depends on the sine of the angle
between the coil and the magnetic field. 
电动势正比于于线圈和磁场夹角的正弦

So for half of the rotation, the sine of the angle is positive,
and for the other half, the sine of the angle is negative.
所以在旋转的一个周期内 正弦值的正负各占一半

When it's positive, the current flows in one direction. 
当正弦值为正时 电流向某一个方向流动

When it's negative, it flows in the other. 
为负时向另一个方向运动

This means that the direction of the current flips with every half-rotation. 
所以电流的方向每半圈反转一次

This produces a type of flow of electricity known as alternating current, or AC. 
这种电流称为交变电流 即AC

Until now, we've mainly been talking about DC, or direct current.
之前我们一直研究的是直流电 DC

There are DC generators, which include special parts
直流电有自己的直流发电机

to make the current keep flowing in the same direction the whole time,
电流在整个过程中保持同一个方向传输

instead of reversing itself as the coil turns.
线圈翻转时电流并不反转

But AC power is the kind that flows from the outlets in your walls.
但墙上插座里的是交流电

And in most places in the world, it reverses itself either 50 or 60 times per second. 
全世界上的大部分的交流电 每秒反转50或60次

This is called the frequency of the current,
and you'll normally see it written in hertz. 
这个数值称为电流的频率 通常的单位是赫兹

Now, we can calculate the strength of the emf
in a generator using some of the principles we talked about last time.
我们可以用以前讲过的方法计算发电机中电动势的大小

We've already described what happens
when you move a loop of wire in or out of a magnetic field:
我们已经讨论了一个线圈移入或移出磁场时的情况

The emf induced in the wire
导线中的感应电动势

is equal to the strength of the magnetic field,
times the length of the loop, times its perpendicular velocity.
等于磁感应强度乘以环路的长度乘以竖直分量速度

In other words, it's the velocity times the sine of the angle
between the magnetic field and the loop. 
换句话说 就是速度乘以磁场与环路夹角的正弦

And the same idea applies to a coil of wire rotating in a magnetic field, too. 
磁场中旋转的线圈也是类似的计算

We just have to replace some of the variables
with ones that apply to a rotating coil. 
我们只需要将一些变量修改为线圈旋转的情况

First, instead of the length of the loop,
we'll use the area of one loop of the coil, A.
我们首先把线圈的长度换成面积

And instead of translational velocity,
we'll use angular velocity, ω. 
再把平移速度换成旋转的角速度ω

Next, the angle, theta, is just equal to the angular velocity multiplied by time. 
角度θ恰好等于角速度ω乘以时间

And finally, instead of finding the emf in just one loop of wire,
最后 我们要计算的是整个线圈的电动势

we're finding the emf in a whole coil of wire.
而不是某一根导线中的电动势

Which means that we need to multiply this equation by N,
the number of loops in the coil. 
所以我们要用在这个方程中乘上线圈匝数N

So, the emf induced in a coil rotating in a magnetic field
所以 磁场中旋转线圈中感应的电动势

is equal to the number of loops in the coil,
times the strength of the magnetic field,
等于线圈匝数 乘以磁感应强度

times the area of a loop of the coil, times the angular velocity,
times the sine of the angular velocity multiplied by time.
乘以线圈环的面积 乘以角速度 乘以夹角的正弦值

It's a bit of a mouthful, but that's because
there are so many factors that affect the emf induced in the coil.
这个式子有点长 因为影响线圈感应电动势的因素确实很多

Basically, the equation is saying that
you'll have a greater induced current in the generator
按理说 线圈匝数变大 或磁场更强 

if there are more coils in the wire, or if there's a stronger magnetic field,
那么线圈中感应电流也会变大

or if each loop of the coil is bigger, or if it rotates faster. 
亦或是线圈的回路面积变大 或者如果旋转得更快也是类似

Now, it might seem kind of strange to have a generator
produce a current that reverses itself dozens of times a second.
你可能纳闷 为什么发电机产生的电流每秒要反向几十次

But actually, this is incredibly useful. 
其实这一点至关重要

That's because another important device
gets electricity from the power plant to your house is a transformer,
这是因为发电厂是通过变压器向你家供电的

which is made up of two coils of wire.
那是一个由两个线圈组成重要电气设备

And transformers only work with AC power. 
变压器只能传交流电

They're necessary because one of the problems 
因为在长距离输电时

with transmitting electricity over long distances is that,
if the voltage is low, a lot of power gets wasted as heat.
如果电压低 大量的电能会以热能的形式浪费

We're talking like 80% in some cases. 
比如有80％的电能用来发热了

Which is a huge waste of energy!
这样的浪费简直太大了

When electricity is transmitted at higher voltages, though,
much less power gets wasted as heat. 
电以高压下传输时 用来发热的这部分就变少了

That's because, for the same power,
在功率一样的情况下

a lower voltage translates to a higher current,
and power loss increases proportionally to the square of the current. 
低电压对应高电流 而热功损耗与电流的平方成正比

In other words, if you double the voltage, 
换句话说 在电压翻倍情况下 电流变成原来的一半

you end up with only a quarter the power loss you had before. 
那么最终用来发热的部分只占原来的四分之一

And if you triple the voltage, you get a ninth of the power loss. 
如果你将电压变成三倍 损耗就只有原来的九分之一

So it's worth transmitting electricity at very high voltages. 
所以输电前提高电压不是多此一举

But then you need a way to change the voltage
of the electricity running through the lines
但你需要一种调整输出线路电压的手段

– from its original voltage from the generator,
which could be around 12,000 volts;
来自发电机的电压或许有1.2万伏

then up to a very high voltage as it travels long distances,
which might be as high as 240,000 volts. 
在长距离输电前 可能要加压到24万伏

That's definitely not safe to use in your household appliances.
给家用电器通这么高的电压绝对很危险的

So once the electricity gets to where it needs to go,
you need to lower its voltage again. 
一旦高压电到达目的地 需要给它降压才能安全使用

In the US, the power coming out of your wall is 110 volts,
and in most other places it's 220 volts.
在美国 墙上插座的电压是110V 其他国家多为220V

All those voltage changes are made using transformers,
所有电压变化都由变压器承担

which take advantage of something called mutual inductance,
它利用了线圈互感的特性

where a change in the current in one coil leads to a change in emf in another, nearby coil.
一个线圈中电流变化会导致另一个线圈中电动势发生变化
And emf is the same thing as voltage. 
电动势与电压是一样的

This change happens because the changing current in the first coil
produces a changing magnetic field.
因为第一个线圈中电流变化了使得磁场变化

So the magnetic flux through the second coil changes, which induces an emf. 
通过第二个线圈的磁通量发生变化 感应出了电动势

And the emf induced in the second coil
在第二个线圈中感应的电动势大小

will be equal to the change in current in the first coil,
divided by the change in time, and multiplied by a constant, M.
等于常数M 乘以第一个线圈中的电流关于时间的变化率

M depends on things like the size and shape of the coils,
and how they're positioned relative to each other.
M取决于线圈的大小和形状 以及两个线圈的相对位置

This works in the opposite direction, too:
对第二个线圈也是一样的分析

a change in current in the second coil
will induce a corresponding emf in the first coil.
第二个线圈电流的变化 也会在第一个线圈中感应出电动势

In transformers, the power running through the first coil is AC,
在变压器中 通过第一个线圈的电流是AC

which means the current and the magnetic field it produces are constantly changing.
这意味着它产生的电流和磁场处在不断变化中

So an emf is induced in the second coil. 
所以在第二个线圈中能感应出电动势

But if the second coil has more turns than the first,
it'll have a higher voltage, and vice versa.
如果第二个线匝数大 那么它的电压更高 反之亦然

Here's why: 
解：

Faraday's law, which we talked about last time,
上节课讲的法拉第定律告诉我们

says that the emf – or voltage – in each coil
每个线圈中的电动势即电压大小

is equal to the number of loops in the coil,
times the change in magnetic flux over time.
等于线圈的回路数 乘以磁通量随时间的变化

We can write this out as an equation for each coil separately,
我们可以分别列出两个线圈的方程

using a subscript P for the primary coil and a subscript S for the secondary coil.
下标P代表初级线圈 下标S代表次级线圈

Now, we want to know how the voltage in the secondary coil
compares to the voltage of the primary one.
现在我们想比较次级线圈与主线圈电压的大小

To find out, we divide the voltage in the secondary coil
by the voltage in the primary coil.
用次级线圈的电压除以初级线圈的电压就可以了

The change in magnetic flux over time cancels out,
which leaves us with a simple but useful equation:
约掉磁通量的导数 于是方程简单了很多

The voltage in the secondary coil divided by the voltage in the primary coil
次级线圈与初级线圈的电压比值

is equal to the number of loops in the secondary coil divided by the number of loops in the primary coil.
等于对应线圈中回路的数量比值

So if the secondary coil has twice as many loops as the primary coil,
如果次级线圈的回路数量是初级线圈的两倍

it'll have twice as much voltage.
那么电压也是初级线圈的两倍

And if it has triple the loops, it'll have triple the voltage, and so on.
三倍的回路 三倍的电压 以此类推

If the secondary coil has more loops than the primary coil,
so that it increases the voltage, that's called a step-up transformer.
如果次级线圈回路更多 电压就更大 这就是升压变压器

And if it has fewer loops than the primary coil,
so it decreases the voltage, that's a step-down transformer.
如果它的回路少 电压就变小 得到了一个降压变压器

As electricity in power lines travels from the power plant to your house
在电流从发电站输送到千家万户的过程中

it goes through lots of step-up and step-down transformers.
要经历若干个升压和降压变压器

If you've ever seen a Tesla coil in action
如果你看过工作中的特斯拉线圈

that's just a fancy version of a step-up transformer. 
那只不过是升压变压器的酷炫版

The secondary coil is designed so that it shoots out
bursts of electricity that look like lightning bolts.
次级线圈的独特设计让它看起来像是闪电

Mutual inductance is also used in lots of other things, too
like wireless chargers, for example. 
互感也被用于许多其它设备上 比如无线充电器

Lots of cell phones have a wireless charging feature,
where you just put the phone on top of a charging pad and it charges. 
许多手机都有无线充电功能 把手机放在充电板上就能充电

No need to plug anything in. 
不需要插充电线

It works because there's a coil inside the charging pad,
and another one inside your phone. 
它的工作原理是充电座和手机内各有一个线圈

The AC power running through the charging pad
induces an emf in your phone's coil, 
充电板使用的交流电源会在手机的线圈中感应出一个电动势

which can use the energy to charge its battery.
利用这个能量为手机电池充电

So the same technology that helps get electricity to the outlets in your wall
同样的技术也能用在墙上的固定插座

can move power from one device to another
even if there are no physical connections between them. 
在没有物理连接的情况下实现电能的传输

Today, you learned about how electricity is produced and transmitted. 
这节课 我们介绍了电如何产生和传输的

We explained how electric generators work,
and derived the generator equation. 
介绍了发电机的工作原理 并导出了发电机方程

We also talked about transformers,
and how they use mutual inductance to change voltage. 
我们还分析了变压器 以及如何使用互感来改变电压

Finally, we described how mutual inductance is used in wireless chargers. 
最后 我们讲了如何利用互感实现无线充电

