You've probably seen it on TV a bunch of times.
你可能在电视剧里看过很多次

A person collapses in a hospital, and a doctor rushes over with a couple of paddles,
医院里 病人快不行了 医生拿来两个电极板

puts them on the patient's chest and then shouts "Clear!"
架在病人的胸口 喊着“预备”

After a jolt, the patient is saved.
震动之后 病人得救了

That life-saving technology is real.
这种救命的方法是真实存在的

And it works because of two main electrical principles:
electric potential energy and capacitance.
它的工作原理包含两个电气概念：电势能和电容

Those paddles are parts of a defibrillator,
这两块电极板是除颤器的一部分

which is basically just a really big capacitor.
其实就是两块很大的电容

It uses electric charge to store energy,
它利用电荷来储存能量

which is then discharged into the patient's body.
然后放电 把能量传给人体

The current stops the irregular contractions of the cardiac muscle,
这些电流打断了心肌的紊乱收缩

and gives the heart a chance to start beating normally.
让心脏开始重新正常起搏

Get ready, because this lesson has the potentialto save lives!
认真听了 这节课可能会救人命的

To understand how a capacitor can save someone's life,
let's review what capacitors are, and how they work.
要知道电容是怎么能救人的 得先回顾一下电容器的概念和工作方式

A capacitor consists of two parallel conductive plates of opposite charge,
with an electric field between them.
电容由两块带相反电荷的平行导电板组成 其间形成电场

This set-up allows a capacitor to store energyas electric potential energy.
这样的设计让电容可以存储电势能

In the same way that an object has 'gravitational' potential energy
when you hold it above the ground,
就像悬空的物体具有“重力”势能一样

a charged object can have 'electric' potential energy when it's held in an electric field.
带电物体在电场中时也具有“电”势能

And in either case, potential energy can be used to perform work
when a force is applied over a distance.
无论在哪种情况下 当物体力的作用下前进时 势能都可以做功

But how can you determine how much electric potential energy a system has,
and how much work it can do?
但你怎么确定一个系统含有多少电势能 能做多少功呢

Like, in the case of a defibrillator,
拿除颤器来说吧

you just want enough potential energy to stop an irregular heartbeat,
你希望能量足够中止心脏紊乱的活动

but not so much that it causes harm.
但又不超出人体承受的上限

To measure potential energy in an electric field,
为了度量电场中的势能大小

let's imagine a positive test charge that's moving between a capacitor's plates.
我们假设极板间有一个正的试探电荷

When we place the positive charge between the plates,
当我们在极板间放置正电荷时

the uniform electric field generates a constant force on it,
均匀的电场对它有力的作用

in the direction of the negative plate.
方向指向负极板

If the test charge starts on the positive plate
如果试探电荷位于正极板

and travels in the direction of the electric force,
顺着电场力的方向运动

we can calculate the work done on it,
我们可以用电场力乘上极板间距

by multiplying the electric force by the distance between the plates.

算出做了多少功

We also know that this force is equal to the value of the test charge times the electric field.
而这个力又等于试探电荷的值乘上电场强度

We can apply an equal and opposite force to the charged particle
我们也可以给试探电荷施加大小相等方向相反的电场力

and move it across the capacitor as slowly as we like,
并让它以任意慢的速度运动

so that the kinetic energy of the particle is negligible.
这样电荷的动能就可以忽略不计了

And because of what we know about the work-energy theorem and the law of conservation of energy,
我们已经学过了功能原理和能量守恒定律

we know that a change of potential energy
势能的变化量

is equal to the work done by the external force,
等于外力做功的负值

or the negative work done by the electric force.
也就是电功的负值

So, we've found the potential energy decrease of a single point charge
in a uniform electric field.
于是我们发现 均匀电场中运动的正电荷的势能是递减的

And this drop in potential energy, divided by the test charge's magnitude,
而电势能的减少量与试探电荷的电荷量的比值

gives us the electric potential energy difference per unit charge, also known as the electric potential.
得到了单位电荷具有的电势能 即电势

The electric potential depends on the electric field and the position,
but it does not depend on the charge of the test charge.
电势只取决于电场和位置 不取决于试探电荷的电荷量

Now, the units of electric potential are Joulesover of Coulombs, more commonly known as Volts.
电势的单位是焦耳每库伦(J/C) 通常被称为伏特(V)

And the electric potential difference is also called voltage,
电势差也称作电压

which is another way of describing a drop in electric potential.
这也是电势下降的一种叫法

When we express it mathematically,
用数学表达式写的话

voltage is equal to the negative electric field
times the distance between the capacitor plates.
电压等于负电场的强度乘上电容的板间距

OK, we've used our hypothetical positive test charge
to describe how much voltage is present across the charged capacitor.
我们用了假设的正试探电荷 算出了电容上带有多少电压

Now let's put our new expressions to the test
and find the electric potential difference in a real scenario.
让我们把表达式运用起来 在真实场景中求解电势差

Let's say we have a capacitor with plates one millimeter apart
假设我们有一个相距1mm的两块电极板

and an electric field of 1000 Newtons per Coulomb
其间的电场强度为1000 N/C

which is the same as 1000 Volts per meter.
也就是1000 V/m
The electric field can be found by dividing force by charge,
电场强度等于电场力除以电荷量

or, for that matter, Newtons over Coulombs,
也就是牛顿每库伦(N/C)

as well as Voltage over distance, or Volts per meter.
也可以写成单位距离上的电压 即V/m

They all represent the same value.
两种写法是等价的

So, say we multiply 1000 volts per meter by 1mm.
比方说 我们把每米1000伏乘上1毫米

We find that the capacitor has a voltage of one volt.
就得到电容的电压为1V

Now, since a capacitor creates a uniform electric field,
因为电容产生的是是均匀电场

we can assume the electric force is constant,
我们可以认为电场力是恒力

and that it acts in the direction in which the test charge moves.
并作用在试探电荷的运动方向上

And as it moves, the potential will decreasemore and more.
电势能随着电荷的移动而减小

We can represent this voltage drop visually,
为了直观的描述电势分布情况

by drawing lines along the locations
我们可以找到试探电荷具有相同电势的所有点

where all the test charges have the same voltage.
并把它们都连起来

These are known as equipotential lines.
这些被称为等势线

In a capacitor, these lines run parallel to the plates,
电容器中 这些等势线都与极板平行

and each line that's closer to the negative plate has a lower electric potential,
or a lower voltage.
越靠近负极板的等势线拥有的电势 即电压 越低

And these equipotential lines are always perpendicularto the electric field.
等势线与电场线处处垂直

So far, we've learned how to calculate electric potential for capacitors
我们已经学会了计算电容的电势

but can we apply the same ideas to point charges?
那点电荷的电势怎么算呢

Well, we know the equation for the electricfield generated by a point charge.
我们知道点电荷的电场方程

But since there's no uniform field, like there would be with a capacitor,
但点电荷不像电容一样产生均匀电场

we can't use all of the equations that we've been using so far.
之前推过的方程不是都能适用的

Finding the electric potential created by a point charge
找到点电荷产生的电势

is like finding the difference in potential energy per unit charge,
就像是求两点之间的单位电荷具有的电势差

between the spot right next to the point charge and somewhere infinitely far away.
也就是点电荷处与无穷远的电势差

If a small charged object with the same sign was next to our point charge Q,
假设有个极性相同的点电荷位于待测电荷Q旁边

it would start with a high electric potential while it was close by,
那么在靠近Q时 它的电势较高

and have a very low electric potential as it got farther away.
并随着远离Q 电势下降

So we can calculate the total electric potential possible,
这样我们就可以从无穷到0进行积分

by integrating the negative electric field from to infinity to zero.
算出总的电势值

We're left with an equation that describes the electric potential
我们就得到了一个用于描述

generated by any point charge.
由任意点电荷产生的电势方程

And we can map equipotential lines for point charges
in the same way we did for the capacitor.
我们可以按照同样的方式 绘制出点电荷的等点势线

For a point charge, the equipotential lines look like circles
of increasing size around the charged particle.
对点电荷来说 等电势线像是围绕电荷的同心圆

The farther away from the point charge, the lower the voltage.
离点电荷越远 电压越低

And for an electric dipole which is one positive point charge and one negative point charge
对于由正负两种极性的电荷组成的系统来说

the electric potentials from individual charges can be added together.
等势线就是两者的叠加

Here, you'll see that each equipotential line is not a constant distance from a point charge.
你可以看出 每条等势线与点电荷的距离都不是恒定的

That's because you've got two point charges with their own electric fields.
那是因为两种电荷具有各自的电场

So a test charge on the right side of the positive point charge
因此 如果把试探电荷放在距离两电荷相同的两个位置

won't have the same potential as one the same distance away on the opposite side.
也不会和放在同种电荷的相同距离的电势相同

Now let's go back to potential energy in capacitors.
让我们回头看电容的电势能

Because it's largely why capacitors are so incredibly useful
这也就是为什么电容器

from defibrillators to electronic components:
对除颤器等电子元件如此重要的原因

When a capacitor's plates store electric charge, they're actually storing energy!
电容的极板储存电荷 实际上是储存能量

If you connect a battery to a basic circuit that contains only a capacitor,
如果你的电源两端只接上电容

the battery causes charge to move from one plate to the other,
through the conductive wire.
电荷就通过导线从一个极板流入另一个了

This results in one positively charged plateand one negatively charged plate.
这就导致了两个极板分别带上正负电荷

But the capacitor hasn't gained any net charge
但电容并没有获得额外的电荷

there's just as much positive charge on the positive plate
正极板带的正电荷

as there is negative charge on the negative one.
抵消了负极板带的负电荷

So, the battery uses its own electric potential
电源消耗了自己的电势能

to generate a current that transfers voltage in the battery to voltage in the capacitor,
产生了电流 将自己的电压“转移”到电容中

giving the capacitor a certain amount of potential energy.
让电容也具有了一定的电势能

For our defibrillator, this energy is quickly turned from potential energy
into a jolt of electricity through the human body.
对除颤器来说 这些能量很快就从势能转变为通过人体的电能

Now if you're trying to save a life, you want to make sure
you're getting just the right amount of energy out of the capacitor.
如果你想救人而不是杀人 就得保证获取的能量大小合适

So to measure how much charge a capacitor can store,
为了测出电容能存储多少能量

we can use a battery in our circuit to create a voltage between the plates,
我们可以把极板接到电路中 获得电压

and then divide the charge in each plate by that voltage.
然后除以每个极板带的电荷量

This value is known as capacitance-how much charge a capacitor is able to hold.
这个值被称为电容量  用来描述电容储藏电荷的本领

Capacitance uses units of Farads,with one Farad equal to one Coulombper Volt.
电容的单位是法拉(F) 1F = 1C/V

Typically, capacitance values are very small,
so we often talk about capacitors in terms of microFarads or nanoFarads.
电容量的单位很大 所以我们经常用微法(μF)或纳法(nF)来描述电容

And capacitance is actually determined by the size and shape of a capacitor.
电容量实际上取决于电容的形状和大小

One way to express capacitance is to
可以用下式描述电容量

divide the area of each plate by the distance between them,
and multiply that by a constant – known as the permittivity of free space
denoted by epsilon naught.
极板面积除以间距再乘上真空电容率ε

Make the plates larger, or move them closer together,
then there's room to fit more charge, creating a stronger electric field.
增大板的面积 或将拉近极板 会使得容纳的电荷增加 增大场强

And once you've established the geometryof the plates,
the capacitance does not change
一旦极板的几何形状确定了 电容量就不会改变了

– unless you stick something between them,
which actually increases the capacitance.
除非你在极板之间插入一些东西 这样会提高电容量

And this something is called a dielectric
typically an insulating material like plastic or glass.
这种东西被称为电介质 通常是塑料或玻璃等绝缘材料

A dielectric is used to increase capacitance
while preventing any charge from jumping from plate to plate.
电介质用于增加电容量 还能防止电荷从极板间中通过

Sometimes, as the plates get hotter or the voltage gets higher,
有时 极板的温度升高 或电压加大

some electrons naturally jump between the plates,
一些电子从中逆向通过

decreasing the amount of stored charge.
降低了电容储存电荷的本领

So an insulator prevents electrons from crossingthe gap.
所以绝缘介质可以防止电子穿过极板间隙

And you usually want the plates to be as close together as possible without touching,
因为间隔越小电容值越大

since a smaller distance equals a larger capacitance.
你希望两块板尽可能得靠近而不接触

So, by using a very thin dielectric, the distanceis decreased while the plates remain separate.
因此 使用非常薄的电介质可以达到这个目的

And the molecules that make up dielectrics are polar,
而组成电解质的成分是有极性的

which means one side of the molecule is slightly positive
while the other side is slightly negative.
这意味着电介质会稍微呈现出极性

The molecules align themselves with the electric field
电介质分子自身也会聚集在一起

and generate their own field in the opposite direction,
形成与极板相反的电场

resulting in an overall weaker electric field,
导致整体的电场强度下降

while the plates retain the same amount of charge.
因为总电荷是不变的

So by inserting an insulating material into our capacitor,
通过在电容器中插入绝缘材料

we've increased capacitance and can hold more charge,
在电压相同的情况下提高了电容量

for the same amount of voltage.
储存的电荷增多了

And that's why the full equation for capacitanceincludes a dielectric constant, K.
因此完整的电容量表达式要包含介电常数K

So dielectrics can help capacitors hold evenmore energy.
电介质可以帮助电容器储存更多的能量

And that potential energy is actually stored within the electric field
between a capacitor's charged plates.
这种势能实际上存储在电容器两极板间的电场中

We can calculate the potential energy stored in this field
我们可以对板中电荷积分

by integrating the voltage over the charge in the plates,
计算出电场中存储的电势能

which reduces down to one half charge time voltage.
结果是电荷量与电压乘积的一半

But when using a capacitor, it's useful to know how much
energy is stored in an electric field per unit volume.
但我们使用电容器前 更关心它单位体积能存储多少能量

We often want to know how much energy is in a certain location,
我们想知道某个位置存储的能量有多少

like between capacitor plates,
比如极板之间的位置

so we use energy density,
因此我们要使用能量密度来衡量

or the amount of energy stored in the electric field per unit volume.
也就是单位体积能存储多少电势能

And we can calculate the energy density associated with an electric field
at any point in space
我们可以用势能除以极板的面积

by dividing the potential energy by the volume between the plates.
计算电场中任何一点的能量密度

With some algebra, we find that this boils down to
one half epsilon naught times the electric field squared.
带入可得 势能为电容率乘以场强平方的一半

And this relation holds true for any spacewith an electric field.
这个关系式适用于任何带电场的空间

Now that we know all this,
现在我们知道

a medic can make sure those defibrillator paddles have the right capacitance,
医生是怎么控制除颤器的电容所含的能量了

have been given enough charge to create a high voltage, and then CLEAR!
能量充满后 就喊“预备”

Physics to the rescue.
物理来帮忙了

Today we learned a lot!今天我们学到了很多东西！
Today we learned a lot!今天我们学到了很多东西！

We talked about electric potential energy
and how it differs from electric potential, or voltage.
我们讨论了电势能和电势即电压的区别

We discussed how capacitors function
and the factors that determine how much charge they hold.
讨论了电容的功能以及影响电容量的因素

We also learned how to maximize energy storage 
nd how to calculate the potential energy held by any capacitor.
还学习了如何最大限度地提高能量储存 并推导了电容量的公式

