When you study physics, you can start to see it everywhere – even here.
随处都可以学物理 即使是过节

As an engineer who studied physics,
作为学过物理的工程师

I have to say one the most interesting parts of the holidays is the lights.
我认为过节最有意思的部分之一是看灯

Just think of all of the crazy displays that you see,
想想你所有去过的惊艳展会

and what it would take to figure out the current
怎么样才能算出

required to power all of the tiny light bulbs
that make them glow.
点亮那些灯泡一共要多少能量呢

So many resistors.
那么多的电阻

Now, I'm not going to ask you to diagram the holiday lights on your neighbor's house.
我不是让你去研究邻居家的灯

But, one of the best ways to understand how electricity works in a system like that,
但是理解电流在系统中运作的最好方法

is through circuit analysis:
就是通过分析电路

the process of breaking down a circuit into its key components,
也就是拆分出电路关键成分

and studying each one, to see what it can tell you about the others.
然后研究它们作用关系的过程

So far, you've learned about the key components of every electrical circuit
目前 你已经学了每个电路都有的成分

namely voltage, resistance, and current.
也就是电压 电阻和电流

These properties are all related to one another through Ohm's law.
三者的关系由欧姆定律确定

This means that if you know two out of the three variables, you can solve for the remaining one.
也就是说 知道其中两个的值 就可以解出第三个的值

For example, you can take a bunch of resistors in a circuit,
例如 你可以给电路中接上一堆电阻

find their equivalent resistance, and then use the voltage to figure out what the current is.
求出等效电阻 然后利用电压求出电流值

And when you know the current, you can get even more important information,
知道电流以后 你就能得到很多的信息

like the voltage across a particular component, or the current through a specific wire.
比如通过某一部分的电压 或通过某一处的电流

So if nothing else, today's lesson in circuit analysis
没什么其他问题的话 今天的电路分析课

will help you appreciate holiday lights on a whole new level.
能够让你的赏灯能力更上一层楼

Let's keep things simple.
让问题简单些

There's an enormous number of circuit-building methods that I'd love to go over with you,
我想和你分享搭建电路的方法数不胜数

but we're going to stick to the basics, which you'll use in every circuit problem you'll encounter.
但我们用最简单也最常见的来举例

These are DC circuits, with resistors in series and parallel formations.
这是两个电阻串联的直流电路

You'll recall that series formations occur when resistors are connected along the same path,
头尾相接的电阻 让你想起来串联电路的电流关系

so they have the same current passing through each one.
所以通过每个电阻的电流相等

And parallel connections are when resistors are placed on wires that branch out from a single point,
并联电路的电流关系 适用于来自同一节点的分支

all having the same voltage drop across them.
加给每个电阻的电压相等

And to find the equivalent resistance of resistors in series,
为了求出串联电阻的等效电阻

you just add their resistances together.
只需要将所以电阻值相加即可

For resistors in parallel, meanwhile, you use a different method
对于并联的电阻 方法就不同了

one that gives you a resistor with an equivalent resistance
它的等效电阻

that's smaller than any of the individual resistors in the branches.
小于所有并联电阻的最小值

Now, let's put these equations to work!
现在 我们来用这些公式解决问题

Here's an example of a circuit with resistors in both series and parallel formations.
这是串并联都有的例子

Say you have a 20-volt battery, immediately followed by a resistor of 10 Ohms.
假设电源电压为20V  最靠近它的是一个20Ω的电阻

Following that, there's a parallel formation of more resistors:
然后是两分支的并联电路

One branch consists of two resistors in series, one of 15 Ohms and one of 2 Ohms.
其中一支由15Ω和2Ω的两个电阻串联而成

The other branch has a 6 Ohm resistor,
另一支 先是一个6Ω的电阻

and then another parallel formation of resistors, 3 and 5 Ohms each.
然后是3Ω和5Ω的两个电阻并联

Our goal is to simplify everything down to one resistor,
我们的目标是 将所有电阻简化成一个电阻

which will have the equivalent resistance of all of these resistors combined.
它的阻值等于所有电阻效果之合

With that equivalent resistance,
有了这个等效电阻

you can then know what the resulting current is in the circuit.
我们就能知道电路中的电流情况了

Then, using Ohm's Law, you can calculate the voltage across,
然后  通过欧姆定律 就能求出电压值

and current through, each resistor.
然后求出通过每个电阻的电流

OK, let's do the easiest steps first.
我们从最简单的求起

Start by finding the resistors in a series.
先找出串联的电阻

You can collapse these down into a single resistor
你可以通过直接求和

by simply adding their resistances together.
求出串联的等效电阻

In this case, you add the 15 and 2 Ohm resistors
在这题里 就是15Ω和2Ω串联

into a single, 17 Ohm equivalent resistor.
相加得到17Ω的等效电阻

Now that branch contains a single resistor.
于是 这个分支只含一个电阻了

Let's look at the other branch.
然后研究另一支

This one has a single resistor and then two in parallel.
它有一个单独的电阻和两个并联的电阻

So let's start by turning the parallel connection of the 3 Ohm
and 5 Ohm resistors into one equivalent resistor.
我们先求3Ω与5Ω并联的等效电阻

Using our equation for resistors in parallel,
利用并联电路电阻关系

you find that they simplify to a single resistor of about 1.88 Ohms.
我们可以求得这俩的等效电阻为1.88Ω

Then, you can add the newly formed resistor to the 6 Ohm one,
然后加上与它串联的6Ω电阻

and the branch simplifies even more – to a single resistor of 7.88 Ohms.
于是这一支的等效电阻为7.88Ω

All right, you're almost there!
好啦 就快求完了

Now, let's combine the 17 Ohm and 7.88 Ohm resistors,
现在是17Ω与7.88Ω并联

which are in parallel, into one resistor and its resistance turns out to be 5.38 Ohms.
根据并联的关系 求得等效电阻为5.38Ω

And with that, you're left with only two resistors in series,
于是 电路中只剩两个串联的电阻了

which you can combine to form a single resistor
with the equivalent resistance of 15.38 Ohms.
直接求和得到最终的等效电阻为15.38Ω

Now, there's only one resistor left,
现在 电路中只剩一个电阻了

which means you can easily find the current drawn from the battery!
也就是说 你可以轻松求出电池流出的电流了

Using Ohm's Law, you can find that the current through a circuit with a 20 volt battery
根据欧姆定律 你可以求出20V的电池

and an equivalent resistance of 15.38 Ohms is about 1.30 Amperes.
通过15.38Ω电阻的电流为1.30A

Just pause for a moment and appreciate what you've done so far.
先停一下 看看你做了什么

You were able to take what you knew about the power source
你已知了电压值

and the number and configuration of the resistors
以及电阻的数量和大小

to figure out the current that runs through the circuit.
就求出了电路中的电流大小

And it wasn't that hard, was it?
也不难 对吧

And now that you've determined the current, you can learn so much more!
现在你求出了电流值 你就什么都知道了

With the total current in the system,
电路的总电流已知

you can expand the equivalent circuit back to its original form.
你可以把等效电阻拆成原先的形式

And while you're doing that, you can determine both the current through,
在你复原的同时 你需要确定每个分支电流的流向

and the voltage drop across, every single resistor.
以及电压在每个电阻上的压降

Just go back one step to the ten Ohm resistor, and the 5.38 Ohm resistor.
先拆成10Ω与5.38Ω的串联

Nothing has changed about the current through the circuit.
电流的流向并没有变化

And the two resistors are in series,
由于两个电阻是串联的

so the current flowing through them is the same.
它俩的电流是相等的

But the voltage drop across each resistor is different.
但每个电阻的压降不等

You can calculate the voltage drop across each resistor
by using Ohm's Law, V equals I times R.
由欧姆定律V=IR 可以求出压降

You know the current, I, and you know each resistance, R,
已知了电流I 和电阻R

so you simply use them to find the distinct voltage drop, V, across each resistor.
于是很容易就算出了两个电阻的压降V 

The voltage drop across the 10 Ohm resistor turns out to be 13 Volts,
10Ω的电阻压降为13V

which leaves the remaining voltage drop across the rest of the circuit to be 7 Volts.
余下7V的全部通过剩下的电路

And you don't have to do anything with the 10 Ohm resistor,
然后保留10Ω的电阻不动

since that's not a combination of resistors.
因为它本身就是单独的电阻

So the current through and voltage across that circuit element doesn't change.
因此通过它的电流与电压也没有变

In order to complete the rest of the circuit,
为了复原剩下的电路

let's expand the 5.38 Ohm resistor back out again,
我们来拆5.38Ω的电阻

to those two resistors in parallel.
拆回两个电阻的并联

Now, you know that any two resistors in parallel have the same voltage drop,
你知道并联电路的电压相等

so both the 17 Ohm resistor and the 7.88 Ohm resistor have a voltage drop of 7 Volts,
因此17Ω与 7.88Ω的电阻 同时享受7V的电压

just when they were collapsed into one.
如同合体时候一样

But the current through each branch is not the same.
但是电流的情况就不同了

Since you know the resistance of, and voltage across, each resistor,
你知道了每个电阻的阻值与电压

you just use Ohm's Law again to calculate the current through each wire.
由欧姆定律可以求得每个支路的电流值

The 17 Ohm resistor, with a voltage drop of 7 Volts,
17Ω的电阻 电压为7V

will have a current of 0.41 Amperes.
它的电流为0.41A

And the 7.88 Ohm resistor, with the same voltage drop of 7 Volts,
7.88Ω的电阻 电压也是7V

will have a current of 0.89 Amperes.
它的电流就是0.89A

And look at this: If you add these two currents together,
回头看下 如果将两支路的电流相加

they equal the 1.3 amperes.
得到1.3A

That's the same value for the current
恰好等与分支路前

that enters the junction where the wires split.
干路的总电流

This must be true, to satisfy conservation of charge,
这是必然的 因为电荷守恒

because remember: What goes in must come out!
因为 有进就有出

Now, let's expand the resistor on the right into its two components,
然后继续将右侧支路的两个电阻拆开

a 6 Ohm and a 1.88 Ohm resistor.
一个6Ω 一个1.88Ω

The current through these two is still 0.89 Amperes,
通过它的电流仍然是0.89A

but the voltage drop of 7 Volts is now split across the two resistors.
但7V的压降要分给两个电阻了

All you have to do is implement Ohm's law yet again,
你要做的就是继续使用欧姆定律

multiplying current and resistance in order to find the voltage drop.
电流乘上电阻得到电压

So 0.89 Amperes times 6 Ohms equals a 5.33 Volt drop.
0.89A×6Ω=5.33V

And 0.89 Amperes times 1.88 Ohms equals the remaining 1.67 Volt drop.
0.89A×1.88Ω=1.67V

Now, It's good to check that you're on the right track
现在来验算一下

by looking at the relationships of all of these values.
你求出的电学量是否正确

Keep in mind that, for resistors in series,
别忘了 串联电路中

the larger the resistance is, the larger the voltage drop that's required.
电阻值越大 分到的电压就越大

Think of a big light bulb and a tiny light bulb on the same wire of holiday lights,
想想电线上的一大一小两个彩灯

using the same current.
它们的电流相等

The little light bulb doesn't draw nearly as much power,
小灯泡的抽取电能的本领不如大灯泡

so it uses less voltage for the same amount of current passing through it.
因此 电流相等时 电压较低

OK, back to work!
好的 回到例题上

Our 1.88 Ohm resistor is a combination
1.88Ω的电阻是等效电阻

of a 3 Ohm and 5 Ohm pair of resistors in parallel.
由3Ω与5Ω并联而成

So the voltage drop across each resistor is still 1.67 Volts,
因此两端的压降仍是1.67V

but the current passing through each will be different.
而通过的电流就不一样了

Using Ohm's Law, you can divide the voltage across each resistor by its respective resistance,
根据欧姆定律 你可以用各自的电阻值除电压

giving you the current through each branch.
就得到了两支路的电流值

1.67 volts divided by 3 Ohms
1.67V÷3Ω

gives you a current of 0.56 Amperes through the 3 Ohm resistor.
得到3Ω的电阻通过0.56A的电流

And 1.67 volts divided by 5 Ohms gives you a current of 0.33 Amperes.
1.67V÷5Ω=0.33A的电流

And since 0.56 plus 0.33 Amperes
而0.56A+0.33A=0.89A

equals the 0.89 Amperes that enters the wire at the split,
就是干路的电流

you know you're on the right track.
你就知道没有算错

One last step!
最后一步

The 17 Ohm resistor is a series combination of a 15 Ohm and 2 Ohm resistor.
17Ω的电阻由15Ω与2Ω串联而成

Here, the current through them – 0.41 Amperes – stays the same,
而通过它们的电流仍是0.41A

while the voltage drop across each one can be found using Ohm's Law.
再次使用欧姆定律求出各自的压降

0.41 Amperes times 15 Ohms equals 6.17 volts across the 15 Ohm resistor.
0.41A×15Ω=6.17V 就是通过15Ω的电压

And 0.41 Amperes times 2 Ohms
equals the remaining 0.82 Volts across the 2 Ohm resistor.
0.41A×2Ω =0.82V 就是通过2Ω的电压

To check your work, you can go back and see that the two voltage drops
至于验算 你只需要把两个电压值相加

equal the total voltage drop across each branch after the 10 Ohm resistor.
与10Ω分压后的电压比较即可

And you've done it! Congrats!
然后就解完了 撒花

You've taken a whole circuit, simplified it down to the bare minimum,
你把整个电路简化成最简形式

then expanded it again,
然后复原

discovering the current and voltage values for every single resistor.
求出每个电阻的电流与电压

But, even though we all love math, what if that's not enough for you?
虽然我们都喜欢数学 但这还不过瘾怎么办

What if you physically constructed this circuit yourself,
如果你真的搭出了这个电路

and you wanted to measure the values so that you knew your math checked out?
你想看看理论计算是否真的正确

To measure voltage, you'd just need a tool known as a voltmeter.
为了测出电压 你只需要一个叫电压表的工具

Pretty creative, I know.
就是这么简单粗暴

Now, you want a way to measure voltage without altering the actual circuit.
现在 你想在不改变电路的情况下测出电压

No solution is perfect, but you can get a pretty accurate reading
这种办法不是完美的 但读数也足够精确了

by attaching the voltmeter on either side of the device that you want to measure.
就是把电压表接到要测器件的两侧

And you do it that way, because you know that
你这么做的理由是 

any components connected in parallel will have the same voltage.
并联电路的电压值相等

But even if you measure the voltage,
但即使你测出了电压值

you still want to avoid changing the resulting circuit.
你仍然不想修改电路

So, what you do is give the voltmeter a resistance that's so high 
因此 你需要令电压表的阻值足够高

that it's considered infinite, relative to the rest of the circuit.
相对于其他部分是无穷大

With an "infinite" resistance, the same voltage is read across
both the voltmeter and the device you're measuring,
阻值无穷大之后 电压的度数就与器件的电压相同

and a tiny amount of current ends up running through the voltmeter.
通过电压表的电流值就很小了

OK, you're a stickler, and even though you've confirmed your voltage,
于是你刨根问底 即使你确定了电压的正确性

you want to do the same thing with the current.
你还想验证电流值

This time, you'll use the fact that
devices connected in series share the same current.
这次你的理由是串联电路的电流相等

So, you need a device that can measure current, in series with another component,
因此 你需要可以串联进电路的器件

without changing the current.
同时不能修改电路

This is known as an ammeter,
这东西叫电流表

and it measures the current in Amperes by connecting in series with the circuit.
串联到要测电流的支路中

It doesn't affect the circuit, because the device has a near-zero resistance.
它也没有改变电路 因为它的电阻值几乎为0

But here's a pro tip: When you use these devices in the lab,
但我有言在先 当你在做实验时

be very careful not to mix up the methods of connection!
千万注意两种仪表接入电路的方式

Attaching the ammeter, a device with near-zero resistance, in parallel with another resistor,
将阻值约为0的电流表并联进电路

will cause nearly all the current to run through the ammeter, possibly damaging it.
会使得电流几乎全部流入其中 造成损坏

And if a voltmeter is attached in series, you're not going to see any current flowing,
而把电压表串联进电路时 不会有任何度数

because the resistance is so large!
因为它的电阻值太大了

But used correctly, these devices can not only allow you to confirm your maths,
使用正确的话 不仅可以用来验证理论计算

they can also give you a hands-on way to measure the basic principles of Ohm's Law in action.
还能自己动手验证欧姆定律

And they just might help you raise your holiday-lighting game to a whole new level.
还能让你的赏灯过程锦上添花

Today, we saw how circuit analysis can be used
这次课 我们学习了电路分析

on any series and parallel configuration of resistors in a DC circuit.
针对直流电路的串并联电阻

We used Ohm's Law to go from an equivalent circuit to solving
由欧姆定律求出电路的等效电阻

for every current value and voltage drop in the system.
从而求出系统各处的电流与电压值

Finally, we saw how to measure voltage and current in a real circuit
using voltmeters and ammeters.
最后 我们还讲了如何使用电流表与电压表测量实际电路的电学量

