Sunlight, moonlight, torchlight, and flashlight.
日光 月光 火把和手电筒

They all come from different places, but they're the all very same thing: light!
它们都是光 但来自不同的地方

It's what makes it possible for us to see the world around us,
so it's worth a close, hard look.
因为有光我们才能看见这个世界 所以光值得我们好好研究一番

For instance, how does light travel?
比如 光是如何传输的呢

When you flip that switch in the bathroom to brush your teeth,
当你打开卫生间的灯准备刷牙时

how does light move from the light bulb, to the mirror, and into your eyes?
光线是如何从灯泡经过镜子进入你的眼睛的呢

And if you're one of many people who wear glasses,
how do those lenses turn a blurry world into a high-definition experience?
如果你是文化人之一 镜片是怎么把模糊的世界变成高清画质的呢

Whether it's glasses, microscopes, or telescopes, it's all about bending light to our will.
无论是眼镜 显微镜还是望远镜 它们都是在人为地引导光线传播

How do we go about this grand task of controlling the very thing that helps us see?
如何做到想看什么就看什么这一艰巨任务呢

Well, let's take a look!
我们来一探究竟

No matter where light comes from, we generally talk about it in the same way,
and make the same assumptions about how it travels.
无论光源是什么 我们都一视同仁

光线的传输的方式我们也认为是相同的

Say you're lying on the beach, basking in a ray of sunshine.
想象你躺在沙滩上晒日光浴

One of the first assumptions we make is that
 the light is traveling from the sun to you, in a straight line.
我们做的第一条假设是 从太阳到你的光线是沿直线传播的

This way of thinking about light is called the ray model,
and the core tenant of the model is that light travels in straight-line paths called rays.
这种模型称为射线理论 它的核心是把光线看作一条射线

But each individual ray is really just a graphical representation of actual light.
但每条单独的射线只是光线的几何简化

A light source may be emitting an infinite number of rays,
but we only draw a few to get the point across.
光源向外发散的光线有无数条 但只需要画出几条足够示意即可

Now, let's say we have a flashlight that's emitting rays of light.
假如我们有一个发光的手电筒

If we point the flashlight at a reflective surface, like a calm pool of water,
we can trace the rays as lines that leave the flashlight,
reflect off the water and continue on as a straight line.
如果我们把手电筒对着一个可以反光的平面 如平静的水面照射时

我们可以看到光线笔直的从手电筒射出

碰到水面后 又笔直的反射出去

Note that the rays on top of the flashlight are now on the bottom, and vice versa.
注意到最上层的红色光线跑到了最下面 整个位置都颠倒了

This makes sense, because if you're viewing something in a reflection,
you see its image reversed.
这不奇怪 因为你看水中的景象都是倒影

Another important observation is that rays leave the reflected surface
 at the same angle at which they struck it.
还可以观察到另一个重要的现象 两条光线关于铅垂线对称

So if I point the flashlight at a 30 degree angle
an angle that we call the angle of incidence
如果手电筒与竖直方向的夹角为30°

我们把这个角称为入射角

it would leave at a 30 degree angle in the other direction.
那么反射光线与竖直方向的夹角也是30°

So, we'd say that the angle of reflection is equal to the angle of incidence.
所以我们说 反射角等于入射角

And the fact that these two angles equal each other is called the law of reflection.
这一性质称为反射定律

Now, the way I described the light hitting the pool of water was oversimplified, wasn't it?
我举的光线照射水面的例子过度简化了

Because, in reality, some of the incident light will reflect off the water's surface,
while the rest of it will go into the water.
实际上 有一部分入射光会进入水里不被反射

And, an interesting phenomenon happens when light rays change
 from one medium to another, such as going from air into water.
当光线在不同介质之间的界面通过时

会出现很有意思的现象 例如空气与水的界面

Have you ever looked at a straw sitting in a cup of water
and noticed how the submerged part of the straw looks bent?
你是否观察过吸管放入水中的部分 像是被折断了一样

Of course the straw itself isn't bent, but the light is,
 when it passes between the water and the air.
被折断的是从空气射向水面的光线 而不是吸管

This phenomenon, of light rays changing direction at the interface
between media, is called refraction.
光线在不同介质交界面改变传播方向的现象称为光的折射

When a ray moves from air into water,
光从空气射向水面时

the ray's angle after passing into the water will be less than the incident angle.
折射角要比入射角来的小

So, the straw looks bent because the rays coming from the straw into your eyes don't travel in a straight path.
以为光线改变了方向 所以吸管看起来被折断了

They become bent, so the bottom of the straw appears to be in a place where it's not.
吸管的末段偏离了本来的位置 于是看起来被掰弯了

The angle of a light ray after it passes from one medium to another
is called the angle of refraction, and it's related to the angle of incidence by Snell's Law.
折射光线与入射光线的大小关系被称为斯涅尔定律

Snell's Law says that angles of refraction are determined by the index of refraction
for each medium and the angle of incidence.
斯涅尔定律说的是 反射角由两种介质的折射率和入射角三者决定

The index of refraction for a certain medium
is the ratio of the speed of light in a vacuum versus the speed in that medium.
介质的折射率定义为 光在真空中与介质中传播速度的比值

And when a ray enters a medium with an increased index of refraction,
the angle of refraction decreases.
光线射向高折射率介质时 折射角小于入射角

In other words, the higher the index of refraction, the smaller the angle.
换句话说 介质的折射率越大 折射角越小

And refraction occurs when light leaves a medium, too.
光线离开介质时也会发生折射

Say you have a flat piece of glass standing on end,
and a light ray enters the glass at an incident angle of theta one.
假设有一块竖直放置表面光滑的玻璃 光线以θ 入射

{\fs12\pos(300.8,256)}1

The angle of refraction inside the glass would be less than theta one,
since the index of refraction of glass is greater.
玻璃内部的折射角小于θ 因为玻璃的折射率比空气的大

{\fs12\pos(176.8,255.467)}1

But once the ray reaches the interface between the glass and the air on the other side,
it refracts again,
当光线再次碰到临界面时 折射现象再次发生

and now the angle of refraction is equal to that first incident angle.
这次的折射角等于最开始的入射角

So, if you look from the right side of the glass,
your eyes see an object that appears to be lower than it actually is.
透过玻璃看到的物体高度是比实际位置要低的

Now, when you observe an object through refracted light like this,
hat you're seeing is an image, a visually reproduced copy of an object.
当你通过折射光观察物体时 你看见的是物体的像 它是物的一个映射

And not all images are the same.
物和像不一定是相同的

An image is considered to be a real image
if the rays from an object converge at some location,
such as your eye or on some other surface, like film.
由光线汇聚而成的像称为实像 例如投到幕布上的电影

Real images can be projected onto screens,
because the light rays from an object are actually traveling there.
实像能成在光屏上 因为光线“确实”传到了光屏上

But the alternative is a virtual image
与之相对的是虚像

an image where the light rays don't actually converge,
由光线反向延长汇聚形成的像

so your eyes construct an image as if the diverging rays originated from a single point.
我们的眼睛把它想象成这些光线都来自同一个点

When you look in the mirror, for example,
it looks like you're standing on the other side of the mirror.
当你照镜子时 你会以为自己站在镜子的另一侧

But you aren't.
但其实不是这样的

You're seeing a virtual image, because the light rays that make up your reflection
aren't actually converging to form an image of you.
你看见的是被反射成的虚像 而不是汇聚而成的你自己

Now, what if we take that plate of glass and re-form both sides so they're no longer flat?
如果我们把镜子的表面打磨一下 让它们不再平整呢

How does that change the law of refraction?
这是不是就改变折射定律了呢

It doesn't! Refraction still occurs.
当然不是 折射定律仍然成立

It's just that the normal line, which is the imaginary line
that the angles are relative to, changes.
只是改变了两角之间的法线而已

Warped pieces of material that form images of objects are lenses,
and they're the most critical tool in the field of optics.
扭曲光路来成像的材料是各种棱镜 它们是光学中最重要的工具

Say we have a lens that has a spherical face on both sides, known as a convex lens.
两侧都是球面镜的棱镜 是凸透镜

As light rays enter the lens,
they turn slightly towards the axis of the lens,
光轴是过透镜中心与透镜垂直的直线

the imaginary line that runs through its center, perpendicular to its face.
当光线入射进透镜时 会稍微向光轴方向聚拢

As they leave the lens and move back through the air, 
the rays are angled slightly more toward that central axis, due to the lens's curvature.
由于球面镜的曲率半径 射出棱镜的光线都向光轴方向

The rays on the very top and bottom of the lens
are bent at a larger angle towards the central axis than the rays near the center, 
which stay almost parallel.
离轴越远的光线偏转的角度越大 越靠光轴的光线越接近水平线

And they all eventually converge at a single point called the focal point.
最终所有的光线汇聚在一个点 这就是焦点

Think of a magnifying glass.
想想放大镜

If you hold it just right in the sunlight,
you can concentrate the sun's rays into a single, very hot point.
在太阳光下利用放大镜可以把太阳光聚焦成一个极亮的小点

That works because you've taken a bunch of incoming parallel rays,
and placed your target of choice at the focal length of the magnifying glass.
因为你把物体放在放大镜的焦点处 通过放大镜的所有光都汇聚了

That's the distance between the lens and its focal point.
这就是焦距 焦点到棱镜中心的距离

And one measure of a lens is its power,
which is expressed simply as one over the focal length.
透镜的一个参数是焦度 定义为焦距的倒数

But a lens that causes light rays to converge in this way is known as a converging lens.
这种使光线汇聚的凸透镜称为会聚透镜

And when you look through a converging lens, 
you can see real images from objects that are beyond the focal point.
当你透过汇聚透镜观察时 你可以看到焦点以外的实像

This is because light rays from those objects actually converge after passing through the lens.
因为来自这些物体的光线确实曾在某一点汇聚过了

Remember, when rays converge at a point, means a real image has been formed.
别忘了 实像就是实际光线汇聚而成的像

Let's show this using a ray diagram, 
which tells us about the position and size of images as seen through a lens.
我们用光路图来表示物像的距离和大小

Let's take a candle that's some distance from the lens, 
which we'll call the object distance.
我们把一根蜡烛放在棱镜前某处 这段距离称为物距

We will use the object distance and the focal length of the lens to find the image distance,
可以利用物距和焦距来得到像距

the location where the image forms on the other side of the lens.
像距就是棱镜到像的距离

Lenses have the same focal length on both sides,
由于双凸透镜的对称

so we'll label the focal point on the side opposite of the object as F 
and the point on the same side as the object as F prime.
我们把像方焦距记为F 物方焦距记为F'

Now, we know that the ray traveling parallel to the axis
will pass through the focal point on the other side,
我们知道 平行光轴入射的光线汇聚在像方焦点

so let's draw a ray from the top of the candle, 
refracting through the lens, and then passing straight through the focal point F.
我们做一条过蜡烛最高点 平行于棱镜 再与F相交的折线

Since the focal length is the same on both sides, 
we draw a second ray from the top of the candle, through the F prime focal point,
由于棱镜左侧也有一个焦点 我们过蜡烛最高点和F' 做一条射线

which then refracts through the lens and travels parallel to the axis.
与棱镜相交后 平行出射

The third ray travels straight through the center of the lens.
第三条线通过棱镜中心

We draw this line because if we assume a thin lens, 
then we can draw a straight line through the center
and disregard the slight offset that would occur due to refraction.
我们假设这是薄透镜 忽略折射现象 因此这条线将不改变方向

With these three rays in place, we see that they intersect at a single point, 
representing the top of the candle in the newly formed image.
画好三条线后 我们发现它们交于同一点 这就是蜡烛像的最高点

You might notice that the image is upside down, which will always be the case for convex lenses.
你肯定发现像的位置是头朝下的 其实凸透镜成像都这样

And the image is formed by light rays that actually originated from the object, 
so a real image is formed.
成像的光线来自物体出射光线的交点 因此成的是实像

The distance between the image and the lens is the image distance 
棱镜到像的距离称为像距

and is related to the object distance and the focal length
by a very important equation.
有一个漂亮的等式把物距像距和焦距联系在一起

This is the thin lens equation, which is derived from ray diagram geometry.
这是由光路图推出来的薄透镜成像公式

For a single converging lens, the focal length and the object distance will always be positive.
对于单个聚焦透镜 它的三个自变量都取正值

The image distance will be positive if the image is on the opposite side of the light source.
如果像在物的不同侧 那么像距为正

This equation holds true for converging lenses as well as their opposite, diverging lenses.
这个方程对于发散透镜同样成立

Diverging lenses have a concave shape and do the opposite of a converging lens, 
causing rays of light to diverge away from the lens's axis.
发散透镜的曲面是中间薄两边厚的 因此可以将光线发散

When we're looking at an object through a diverging lens,
当我们透过发散透镜观察时

our eyes imagine that the diverging rays originate from a location
where the rays don't actually begin, so the lens generates a virtual image.
我们的眼睛认为光从一个不存在点发散出来 因此成的是虚像

And when we construct a ray diagram for a diverging lens, 
there are a few key differences.
我们画发散透镜的光路图时 情况有些不同

First of all, the focal point F is on the same side as the object
and F prime is on the opposite side.
首先 像方焦点F与物同侧 而F'在另一侧

While a single ray of light still goes through the very center of the lens,
尽管过光心的直线仍然笔直前进

the other two rays take slightly different paths, 
resulting in a virtual image forming on the same side as the object itself.
另外两条过焦点的直线为了成虚像另辟蹊径

For a diverging lens, the thin lens equation is still true,
but the focal length is now a negative value.
对于聚焦透镜 成像公式依然成立 但焦距要加负号

Another important equation that's true for both converging and diverging lenses
is the magnification equation.
透镜的另一个重要公式是棱镜放大率方程

Magnification is the ratio of the image height to the height of the actual object.
放大率定义为像高与物高的比值

When the image is upside down, like in our converging lens,
then the height is a negative value.
如果是凸透镜这种倒立像的情况 需要加负号才行

And the ratio of the image distance to the object distance is also negative.
同样 像距与物距的比值也要加负号

But all of these ideas, taken whole, 
give you a good understanding of optics
这些基本概念让你对光学有了初步的了解

the fundamental rules that explain how we can observe particles
正是因为这些光学基本定理的存在

too small to see with our eyes, 
as well as objects that are millions of light-years away.
我们才能观察小到微观粒子 远到光年以外的星球

Today we learned about the the ray model of light
and the laws of reflection and refraction.
这节课我们学习了射线理论模型以及反射、折射定律

We learned about how refraction works with converging and diverging lenses.
还讲了聚焦、发散透镜折射光线的情况

Finally, we built ray diagrams to discover how objects are viewed
through different kinds of lenses at different points.
最后 我们借助光路图画出不同透镜在不同点的成像情况



